iran situation `not good news' : french official  paris, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the situation in iran is extremely worrying and has set back hopes of better relations with tehran, french officials said on sunday. "what is happening in iran is clearly not good news for anyone, neither for the iranians nor for peace and stability in the world," said henri guaino, one of french president nicolas sarkozy's closest advisors. protesters have clashed with police in tehran for two days running after iranian authorities declared hardliner mahmoud ahmadinejad outright winner in a contested presidential ballot. france is a permanent member of the united nations security council and is part of a group of six world powers that is trying to persuade iran to halt its nuclear ambitions. french foreign minister bernard kouchner said on sunday that "brutal" repression of ahmadinejad's opponents was closing the door to dialogue within iran and warned that confrontation would be counterproductive. "brutality and never-ending military development will not bring any solutions," kouchner said after meeting u.s. special envoy to the middle east george mitchell in paris. the united states, russia, china, france, germany and britain have invited iran to talks to find a diplomatic solution to the nuclear row, but tehran has so far rejected the offer. the major powers suspect iran wants to produce a nuclear weapon. tehran says it wants to generate electricity. guaino repeated that iran had to let international observers visit its nuclear sites and said tehran also had to recognise israel's right to exist. "if we cannot start a dialogue on this sort of a basis then we will head into an extremely dangerous situation," he told france's europe 1 radio. "if iran gets the nuclear bomb coupled with an aggressive political stance, then there is naturally the risk of a confrontation with those who feel threatened," he said, in apparent reference to israel. kouchner said the election campaign had raised hopes that there would be an open debate within iran over its future direction and added that "civil iranian society" clearly wanted such a dialogue. "france regrets that instead of openness there has been quite a brutal response... this will leave its mark, and the opposition will organise itself." iran's supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has told all iranians to rally behind ahmadinejad, but opponents have denounced the vote as a fraud. asked if he thought the election was rigged, kouchner said: "let's not throw any oil on the f --- ansar clinch women's tt title  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  bangladesh ansar became champions in the women's section of the ab bank 30th national table tennis championships beating dhaka district by straight 3-0 sets in the final at the wooden floor gymnasium on wednesday. ansar's saleha won the first two sets 11-7, 11-5 against sima, who later bounced back winning two straight sets by 11-7 and 12-10 to level the match before saleha won the fifth set by 14-12 points. saleha's teammate rumi and soma also won against rahima and nahim by straight 3-0 set to seal the victory for ansar. earlier, ansar moved into the final beating biman 3-0 while dhaka advanced to the final thrashing rajshahi also by the same margin. in the boy's section, biman became champions in group a beating rangpur 3-0 while dhaka clinched the group b title defeating manikganj also 3-0 in the finals. bangladesh ansar and feni moved into group a women's team final routing rangpur and sylhet division respectively. bd --- pato and pirlo staying at milan, says leonardo  rome, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - brazil forward alexandre pato and italy midfielder andrea pirlo will not leave ac milan to join their former boss carlo ancelotti at chelsea, the serie a club's new coach leonardo said on thursday. "they are not moving from milan," leonardo was quoted as saying by la gazzetta dello sport's website (www.gazzetta.it). "they are both very important for the team. they are fundamental parts of a recent victorious past, pirlo especially." both players raised doubts about their futures this week after being linked to chelsea, sparking fears among milan fans that brazil playmaker kaka's move to real madrid could start an exodus from the san siro. pato even said he planned to hold talks with ancelotti before deciding on his future. chief executive adriano galliani also sought to reassure milan fans that the 19-year-old brazilian, who has been a constant goal threat since joining from internacional in 2007, is going nowhere. "all the big names will 99.9 percent (certainly) stay," galliani told reporters. "pato, the best 19-year-old striker in the world, (will stay) 100 percent." galliani reiterated that milan want to buy vfl wolfsburg striker edin dzeko even though the german club have said the bosnian is not for sale. he also confirmed andriy shevchenko and philippe senderos will not be staying after their loans from chelsea and arsenal elapsed --- ethiopian troops cross deeper into somalia: residents  mogadishu, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - heavily-armed ethiopian soldiers crossed into central somalia on friday and entered a town controlled by a pro-government militia nearly 30 kms (19 miles) from the border, residents said. "they came with battle wagons and trucks all full of soldiers and guns," said hassan abdi, a resident in the town of balanbale in galgadud region. "everybody is very worried." residents said the ethiopian troops were setting up positions in the center of the town. central somalia has been the scene of heavy fighting between hardline islamist insurgents and the moderate islamist group ahlu sunna waljamaca. "we are ready to fight the ethiopians if they come close to our forces, we will give them a lesson," hassan maalin takow, an al shabaab commander told reuters. al shabaab and allied group hizbul islam is trying to oust the government of president sheikh sharif ahmed, a former islamist rebel who was elected in january, and impose a strict version of islamic law throughout the horn of africa nation. the insurgents control large swathes of the south and parts of the capital mogadishu. they have been battling pro-government forces this month in a bid to stamp more authority on the center of the horn of africa nation. no intention of going into somalia ethiopia sent thousands of troops into somalia in 2006 to help topple an islamist movement holding mogadishu and most of the south. that drew protests from some in the muslim world and enraged the islamists, who regrouped to launch an insurgency. the ethiopian soldiers withdrew in january but residents, insurgents and humanitarian organizations have reported several incursions in the past few months. addis ababa initially denied any soldiers had crossed into somalia but said earlier this month military personnel had been carrying out "reconnaissance" missions into its neighbor. "ethiopia has no intention to go back into somalia. that is the standing position of our government," the ethiopian government's head of information, bereket simon, told reuters on friday when asked about reports of new incursions. he will be holding a regular news conference on saturday. the ethiopian troops were deeply unpopular in somalia and their two-year presence helped rally support for the insurgents. since withdrawing, ethiopia has left a heavy military presence along its border with somalia and has been keeping a close watch on the ebb and flow of fighting between the rebels and pro-government forces. it is wary of having a hardline islamist state next door and western nations fear al shabaab, which has links to al qaeda, could use southern somalia as a base to destabilize neighbors such as kenya and ethiopia. people living in the southwestern somali region of bakool, which is controlled by hardline islamist rebel group al shabaab, said ethiopian troops moved into a village called washaga on friday and residents were fleeing. "i'm now packed up to leave the village, al shabaab and the ethiopians are close to each other and on the verge of fighting," said resident fatima isaq madey --- suu kyi says junta's charges are political: lawyer  yangon, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - myanmar's detained opposition leader aung san suu kyi believes her trial is an attempt by the country's ruling generals to prevent her from running in multi-party elections next year, her lawyer said. the nobel laureate, who faces three to five years in prison if found guilty of breaching the terms of her house arrest, has urged her lawyers to "explore all legal avenues" to win the widely-condemned case. "daw aung san suu kyi told us the trial and the charges against her were politically motivated," nyan win said late on wednesday after defense lawyers were allowed to meet the 63-year-old at her prison guesthouse. "she instructed us to explore all legal avenues to take appropriate legal action," he said. a conviction is widely expected in the former burma, where the courts have often bent the law to suit the military, which has ruled for nearly half a century. a yangon court on tuesday upheld a ban on two of suu kyi's defense witnesses but agreed to allow khin moe moe, a legal expert, to give testimony. nyan win said a second appeal to have the bans overturned would be lodged with a higher court later on thursday. "sabotage" the initial barring of the three witnesses outraged suu kyi's supporters, who accused the junta of trying to sabotage her defense. suu kyi is charged under section 22 of an internal security law to protect the state from "subversive elements" after american john yettaw swam across the inya lake to her home on may 4, where he stayed for two days. yettaw told the court he was sent by god to protect suu kyi from "terrorists" seeking to kill her. he and two of suu kyi's housemaids are also charged under the security law. suu kyi's next court appearance is scheduled for friday, although her lawyers expect the case to be adjourned. the pro-democracy icon has been detained for 13 of the last 19 years, mostly at her lakeside home. her latest stint of house arrest was lifted on may 26. western governments and myanmar's regional neighbors have expressed outrage at the trial, which critics say is aimed at keeping the charismatic national league for democracy (nld) leader out of elections next year. nyan win said suu kyi was especially irked by the junta's refusal to allow her to have her house cleaned during the trial. "she thinks that the authorities are having nothing to do with her house since her house arrest has been officially lifted," nyan win added. "she cannot accept it." --- fiat closes chrysler deal; new management team named  detroit/milan, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - fiat spa closed its acquisition of chrysler's strongest assets on wednesday, a key step in the italian carmaker's ambitious plan to create a global player to ride out the worldwide auto sales downturn. the fiat and chrysler announced deal revives the 84-year old us automaker that had been down to its last dollars before government intervention in late 2008 and completes an obama administration-directed fast-track reorganization for chrysler. other parts of chrysler will remain in bankruptcy to be sold or closed. fiat chief executive sergio marchionne became ceo of the new chrysler group llc on wednesday. the automaker's former ceo, bob nardelli, will return to cerberus capital, the former majority owner of chrysler, as an adviser. chrysler's former vice chairman and president, jim press, has been named marchionne's deputy chief executive, and fiat's chief financial officer, richard palmer, has been named cfo of the new company. in a memo to employees, marchionne voiced optimism about the new company's outlook. "there is no doubt in my mind that we will get the job done," he said. he called the alliance a "bold first step to implement" lessons learned. marchionne added that fiat will begin the process of transferring fiat's technology, platforms and powertrains to chrysler plants in the next few months. in addition to fiat, chrysler group llc is owned by a union-aligned trust and the u.s. and canadian governments in taking over the best parts of chrysler. the white house welcomed the completion of the deal and said the new alliance was "poised to emerge as a competitive, viable automaker." the canadian government said a restructured chrysler is good for the canadian auto parts supply chain and for canadian consumers. chrysler has said it expects c. robert kidder to be named chairman. the united auto workers said on wednesday the trustees for the union-aligned retiree healthcare trust have named former michigan congressman and governor james blanchard as their director to the board. the automaker's nine-member board is to have three directors appointed by fiat, four by the u.s. government, one by the canadian government and one by the uaw trust. the completion of the chrysler sale in roughly the time frame planned has been seen by analysts as a good omen for the prospects of completing a similar process for general motors corp, which filed for bankruptcy on june 1. the gm sale is expected to take longer due to the size and complexity of the no. 1 us based automaker. gm will be majority owned by the us government when its sale is completed. supplier talks chrysler filed for bankruptcy on april 30 and halted production to work through the sale to fiat, heightening pressure on auto parts suppliers that already had sustained losses due to production cuts at automakers in north america. chrysler said it would resume production soon, but did not give a time frame. gm also halted significant production starting in mid may for several weeks. us and canadian auto suppliers are under heightened pressure as us auto sales remain at their lowest level in 27 years. u.s. sales are down 36.5 percent in the first five months of 2009. the obama administration's autos task force was meeting with parts suppliers on wednesday as part of its effort to monitor the auto supply base, a treasury spokesperson said. "today's meeting is part of our ongoing commitment to work with the companies and monitor the auto supply base going forward," the spokesperson said. us suppliers had submitted a formal request to the us treasury for $18.5 billion in emergency funding, saying they have been shut off from credit at a time when payments from automakers are declining rapidly. shares of several large us auto parts makers rose sharply on wednesday after the chrysler deal completion erased fears that it could face liquidation if the deal did not go through and eased concerns over whether some auto suppliers could survive the current downturn. separately, senate banking committee chairman christopher dodd on wednesday asked a senior member of the treasury task force responsible for overhauling the auto industry, ron bloom, to explain how the obama administration would extricate the government from its ownership stakes in gm and chrysler. us senator richard shelby, a persistent critic of the auto bailouts and the top republican on the senate banking committee, said he was not sure government could remain a silent partner in gm and chrysler and protect taxpayers. shelby also said treasury needed to think about an exit strategy from its gm and chrysler ownership stakes. bloom told senators on wednesday there was no blueprint for exiting the stakes and that setting a timetable could disrupt markets. he also said there was a reasonable chance to recoup billions that have been put into the companies so far and there were no plans for further assistance. meanwhile, several lenders that provided bankruptcy funding to auto parts supplier delphi corp are seeking to make their own competing offer for the company, their lawyers told a us bankruptcy court on wednesday. delphi, which was spun off from gm in 1999 and filed for bankruptcy in 2005, said last week it reached a deal to sell most of its global operations to private equity firm platinum equity, allowing the car parts supplier to emerge from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. platinum equity said in a statement later it was uniquely equipped to help delphi in ways that no other investor can --- isolated north korea could avoid un pinch: analysts  united nations, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the un security council on friday unanimously approved wider sanctions against north korea over its may 25 nuclear test, a move close ally china said showed firm opposition to pyongyang's atomic ambitions. the sanctions resolution banned all weapons exports from north korea and most arms imports into the reclusive communist state. it authorized un member states to inspect north korean sea, air and land cargo, requiring them to seize and destroy any goods transported in violation of the sanctions. both china and russia, which had been reluctant to approve punitive measures against north korea in the past, backed the us-drafted resolution, which is binding under international law. china's un ambassador, zhang yesui, said the resolution showed the "firm opposition" of the international community to north korea's nuclear ambitions, but he urged countries to exercise caution when inspecting north korean cargo. "under no circumstances should there be use or threat of the use of force," zhang said. us ambassador susan rice said washington would press for full implementation of the sanctions and would not get into a "tit-for-tat reaction" to every provocation from pyongyang. "it would not be a surprise if north korea reacted to this very tough sanctions regime in a fashion that would be further provocation and further destabilizing," she said. un secretary-general ban ki-moon's press office issued a statement welcoming the 15-nation council's move. "acting unanimously and agreeing on credible measures, the members of the security council have sent today a clear and strong message to (north korea)," the statement said, adding the south korean u.n. chief would "spare no effort in facilitating the implementation of the resolution." two senior diplomats involved in the negotiations on the resolution told reuters on condition of anonymity the chinese had never really clarified whether they intended to implement the new sanctions resolution in contrast to earlier sanctions against north korea that they ignored. "the effectiveness of this resolution will depend on its enforcement," one of the diplomats said. belligerent threats the measures in the new resolution were covered in a 2006 sanctions resolution, although the new one has more detail and some of the measures -- above all the arms embargo -- have been expanded. if enforced, diplomats say it will make it difficult for pyongyang to continue its nuclear and missile programs. a study by the us-based institute for foreign policy analysis think tank this year estimated pyongyang earns around $1.5 billion a year from missile sales. asia society executive vice president jamie metzl said it had exported arms to about 20 countries in the past, including iran, egypt, pakistan, myanmar, zimbabwe and sudan. "their finances are in big trouble. they have almost nothing that anybody else wants to buy but these arms," metzl said, describing arms sales, including the sale of nuclear know-how, as a "financial lifeline" for north korea. north korea, which prompted a period of high tension in the region with the nuclear blast followed by a series of missile tests and belligerent threats, did not send a representative to speak at the security council meeting. japanese envoy yukio takasu acknowledged that the resolution did not permit the use of force, even during inspections of suspicious north korea cargo. they must be done "on the basis of cooperation and consent" and the only recourse was to report refusals to the security council, he said. during more than two weeks of negotiations on the draft resolution, the united states and japan had pushed to authorize forced inspections of suspicious air, land and sea cargo. but diplomats said russia and china had made clear they would veto the resolution unless the inspections were based on consent. the resolution did speak of a "required inspection" if a ship refuses to be inspected. but the ship's flag country could then send the vessel to any port it chooses, where the local authorities would carry out any cargo inspection. this, analysts say, weakened the inspection regime. all financial transactions with north korea that could contribute to its nuclear or ballistic missile programs will remain banned. the resolution urges, but does not require, states and institutions not to make new grants or loans to north korea, except for humanitarian or development aid. china's commitment beijing ignored an earlier round of sanctions against pyongyang passed after north korea's first nuclear test in october 2006. but the diplomats said china had become increasingly frustrated with north korea and it was more likely to help implement the sanctions now than ever before. russian ambassador vitaly churkin said the resolution, officially numbered 1874, was "appropriate" and "balanced." the new resolution broadened the arms embargo against north korea to ban the sale of all arms -- heavy and small -- by pyongyang, but allowed it to keep buying small arms. diplomats said china opposed banning small arms sales to pyongyang. the resolution urged north korea to return to the six-nation aid-for-disarmament talks with the united states, china, russia, japan and south korea and offered a chance to suspend sanctions if north korea changed course. britain's deputy ambassador, philip parham, said the sanctions targeted pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs and would not hit the north's already impoverished population --- may us foreclosures third highest on record  new york, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us foreclosure activity for may ebbed from april's record, but mortgages still failed at a staggering pace as president barack obama's rescue programs had not had time to fully take root, realtytrac said on thursday. foreclosure filings dipped 6 percent in the month but increased 18 percent from may 2008, marking the third highest month on record. "there were almost one million foreclosure filings in a three-month period, and that's simply unprecedented," rick sharga, senior vice president at realtytrac in irvine, california, said in an interview. temporary freezes on foreclosure activity ended in march. failures of many seriously delinquent loans that were put on hold during those moratoria have been thrust back into the foreclosure cycle. one in every 398 households with loans got a foreclosure filing in may. filings, which include notices of default and auctions, were reported on 321,480 properties last month. stemming foreclosures is seen critical to bolstering home prices, consumer confidence and the recessionary us economy. bank repossessions, known as real-estate owned or reos, rose in may and should spike in coming months because the moratoria ended, realtytrac said. obama plan needs time the administration's plans to ease loan modifications and refinancing were detailed in early march and haven't been implemented long enough to derail foreclosures. the hurdles are high. unemployment reached a nearly 26-year peak in may and mortgage rates have leaped a percentage point from their spring lows to more than 5-1/2 percent. "one of the cures to this problem is enough buying activity to eat up the inventory of distressed properties," sharga said. "if mortgage rates go up to where people decide to wait out the market again, that's just going to add to the inventory numbers and put more downward pricing pressure on all homes." realtytrac forecasts about 4 million foreclosure filings will be made this year on about 3.1 million households with loans. last year, there was a record 3.1 million filings on about 2.4 million households. in a more typical year, sharga said there would be around 800,000 filings on 550,000 households. "when you have a glut of inventory and downward pricing pressure that does tend to push properties into foreclosure," said sharga. states where sales and prices soared most in the five-year housing boom earlier this decade remained the hardest hit. nevada stayed at the top of the foreclosure rate rankings by state, with one in every 64 housing units getting a foreclosure filing. california, florida and arizona, michigan, georgia, colorado, idaho and ohio were the other states with the highest foreclosure rates. ten states, led by california, accounted for almost 77 percent of total number of foreclosure actions in may. "we need to give the administration's programs a little bit of time to gain traction," sharga said. "if unemployment continues to worsen, all bets are off on foreclosure ra --- muhith to roll out 'tk 115,000 crore budget'  abdur rahim harmachhi bdnews24.com senior correspondent dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)having finessed the details in the past few days, finance minister abul maal abdul muhith is all set to propose the first budget of the new awami league-led government, with an expected outlay of tk 115,000 crore, and introduction of a much-touted ppp sector,. the finance minister, speaking of the ensuing budget on tuesday night, said it aimed of course to fulfill the government's campaign commitments, and combat the impacts of the global financial crunch. "public-private partnership is the novel aspect of the coming budget. it will be an addition to the traditional revenue and development budgets." asked the total size of the budget, muhith said it had to be above tk 100,000 crore. it should be around tk 115,000 crore as indicated by the media. in more than one pre-budget discussion, the finance minister indicated that the next budget will be an "ambitious one". the budget will have to be expanded to an extent to deliver on the election pledges, which focused on farms, power and poverty, create jobs, raise civil servants' pay and adopt extra measures to cope with the financial downturn that includes boosting internal demand. the total revenue expenditure in the budget exceeds tk 82,000 crore, of which tk 30,500 crore in annual development programme (adp) allocations have been finalised by the national economic council. the fy 2009-10 budget will have a block allocation of tk 2,200 crore to finance the much-discussed public-private partnership (ppp) entrepreneurial efforts. the total revenue earnings have been targeted at tk 85,000 crore. the size of the fy 2008-09 budget was tk 99,962 crore, which had a revenue earning target set at tk 69,382 crore (including nbr and external sectors). the minister has also assured time and again that people would not be burdened with new taxes, but the scope and limits of levying existing taxes must be further expanded. the taxation system will be made more effective to make sure none can dodge it, he has said. the new budget will widen the net from seven lakh to target 10 lakh regular taxpayers out of a total 22 lakh with tins, a national board of revenue official told bdnews24.com. the finance minister has said the number of recipients of old-age, freedom fighters and widows allowances, and other social security stipends will be increased alongside enhancing the amount, in line with the election promises. ppp to come muhith said a separate controller's office needed to be set up to run the new ppp initiatives. "they will be fully run by the private sector and from the private sector again a chief will be recruited." "the total project will be funded by private sector entrepreneurs." for example, muhith said, "we can invite the private sector to be a party to build residential halls for public universities." "birdem will have new hospitals in the north-western region through ppp." tk 2,200 crore for ppp a block allocation of tk 2,200 crore in the new budget for the new ppp sector will be utilised to fund six projects. four will be implemented in dhaka, one in chittagong and one in the coastal belt, costing an estimated tk 76,245 crore in total. the projects are dhaka-chittagong express highway, sky railway skirting dhaka city, underground railway in the capital and the dhaka city elevated expressway under the communications ministry, he said. the power and energy ministry project proposes the construction of two 900 megawatt coal-fired power plants and the shipping ministry eyes a deep sea-port in chittagong. according to the finance ministry data, the cost of dhaka-chittagong express highway has been estimated at tk 22,101 crore, dhaka city underground railway tk 21,390 crore, the sky railway skirting dhaka city tk 19,320 crore, dhaka city elevated expressway tk 8,487 crore and the two 900 megawatt coal-fired power plants in the coastal belt will together cost tk 621 crore. the projects being colossal in dimensions, their implementation will take five to seven years, the ministry official said. besides, construction of smaller link and approach bridges, flyovers, underpasses and tunnels, university residential halls and hospitals will be undertaken under the ppp. in the changed circumstances during military-installed fakhruddin ahmed-led caretaker government's regime, then the finance and planning adviser, ab mirza azizul islam, had presented two budgets for the fiscal years 2007-8 and 2008-9. earlier in 1995, professor wahiduddin mahmud as the finance adviser to the then caretaker government had presented the nation with an interim budget for three months. budget on bdnews24.com a press information department handout on tuesday said the finance minister's budget presentation and all related information will be available on the website of bdnews24.com. the handout added that the budget presentation, budget summary, annual financial statement, supplementary financial statement, grant and allocation demands, mid-term budget structure, public-private partnership, entrepreneurial investments, programmes of four ministries to achieve women development and rights will be provided by the jatiya sangsad for wider dissemination through the media and especially bdnews24.com. bdnews --- belarus-russia rift widens as minsk snubs moscow meet  minsk, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - belarus on sunday signaled a growing rift with ally russia, saying president alexander lukashenko would not attend a security summit in moscow in protest at a russian ban on dairy imports from belarus. ties between former soviet republics russia and belarus have been strained since 2007, with minsk upset at steadily rising prices for russian gas and moscow angered by lukashenko's growing overtures to the west. lukashenko had been due to take part in a summit of the collective security treaty organization (csto), which groups russia, belarus, armenia and four central asian states: kazakhstan, uzbekistan, tajikistan and kyrgyzstan. but he pulled out after moscow banned one of belarus's key exports, dairy products. russia said this was imposed on health grounds but moscow has often used trade bans to put political pressure on neighboring states. "in the current situation, belarus ... is forced to cancel its participation in the csto meeting in moscow on june 14," belarus's foreign ministry said in a statement. it was not feasible to take decisions about security unless there was a halt to actions which undermined the economic security of csto partners, the statement said. "we believe it would be a mockery of common sense against the background of 'trade wars' waged by some csto members against others." russian foreign minister sergei lavrov chided minsk for linking what he said were economic problems to issues of military and political security. "honestly, we cannot comprehend the motives behind the belarussia side's decision not to take part in the csto events in moscow today," lavrov told the interfax news agency. russia froze a $500 million loan to belarus at the end of may, prompting an angry outburst by lukashenko. he said moscow refused the money because he turned down kremlin demands to recognize the breakaway georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia as independent states. on june 6, russia banned imports of dairy products from belarus, cutting off a major source of exports for the indebted and struggling state, which still runs a largely soviet-style command economy. lukashenko hit back by cancelling participation in sunday's csto summit. the csto controls a key land route from europe to afghanistan and is sometimes billed as a counterweight to nato. it had been due to decide on sunday on the creation of a rapid reaction force to fight common security challenges such as drug trafficking from afghanistan and international terrorism. "our country will sign a package of documents on the rapid reaction force only once security within the csto has been restored in all its entirety," belarus's foreign ministry said. slav neighbors russia and belarus have pledged to build a "union state" and have declared a passport and customs union, but progress toward political union has long been stalled and the latest moves have reversed progress in this area. on saturday, lukashenko asked his ministers to look into the re-introduction of controls on the border with russia. lukashenko has long been accused by the west of repressing dissent, muzzling the media and rigging elections. but as relations with moscow soured, he has tried to improve relations with the west by releasing dissidents from jail and promising to consider other political reforms. russia, the world's no.2 oil exporter and a holder of the third largest gold and forex reserves, has been trying to use the economic crisis to tighten its grip on less wealthy neighbors, largely dependent on trade with ru --- bnp to 'watch budget live' at party chief's office  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)bnp has made special arrangements at its chairperson's office at gulshan to watch the finance minister's budget speech live on thursday afternoon. senior party leaders will express their reaction after watching the budget speech on a giant screen, the bnp chairperson's press secretary to maruf kamal khan told bdnews24.com on wednesday. he said members of the national standing committee, central leaders, and incumbent lawmakers, along with business leaders and others were expected to attend the event. "this is the first time bnp has made arrangements to give an immediate reaction on the national budget." maruf the programme will start with the speech of the finance minister. bdn --- south africa edge out new zealand by one run  london, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa edged new zealand by one run in an exciting if ultimately meaningless twenty20 world cup group d match at lord's on tuesday. both teams had already qualified for the second round at the expense of scotland and the result made no difference to the draw for the super eight. south africa, defending a meagre total of 128 for seven after reaching 61 for one in 10 overs, fought their way tenaciously back into the match after new zealand captain brendon mccullum looked to be winning the contest for the kiwis. mcculllum was deputising again for daniel vettori who decided to rest his sore left shoulder for a second match in succession. after mccullum's dismissal for 57 with the score 93 for four off 17 overs, new zealand lost momentum. fifteen from the final over bowled by left-arm paceman wayne parnell proved just too much even though jacques kallis spilled a catch at long-off off jacob oram. sri lanka play west indies and defending champions india face ireland in the last group matches at trent bridge on wednesday (1230) with all four teams already assured of places in the second round --- atn bangla says 'bought plot', denies grab bid  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)a spokesperson for private television channel atn bangla has said the company owns the property at 69 gulshan avenue, which armed intruders broke into in the early hours of wednesday morning to try and forcibly evict an octogenarian couple from their decades-old home. saiful bari, chief adviser to atn bangla, told bdnews24.com the 21-katha plot was bought for tk 2.25 crore in march this year. chairman of the tv station mahfuzur rahman purchased the land from abdur rashid khan on atn bangla's behalf, bari said. "the number of the plot is cwos (a) 13. however, rajuk has changed the number. rashid has taken the house as lease from the rajuk and it has not been handed over to him (rashid) as well." he showed this correspondent a money receipt of rajuk as proof that rashid owned the plot. "but no one from atn bangla tried to illegally grab the house; those who did so are not associated with atn bangla," said bari. he said a signboard seized by police bearing atn bangla's name was not theirs. asked why they bought the land whose ownership had been disputed, bari said most of the lands had complications over ownership. even though bari claimed that rashid himself had not been handed over the house, the land documents say rashid had been living in that house without any receiving claims from others about the ownership. he had also been paying annual tax and utility bills. bari said the 21-katha plot was bought at tk 2.25 crore, but according to current market price each katha of land in gulshan area costs around tk 2 crore armed intruders, claiming to be from the private tv station, sought to forcibly occupy the valuable gulshan avenue property. the gang broke into the home of retired civil servant abdul qaiyum at around 1:30am and tried to overpower the night guards, but faced stiff resistance from neighbours' security men. qaiyum, who began his civil service career in the colonial era, retired as chairman of biwta in the pakistan days and is widely respected among neighbours. a number of neighbours alleged police complicity in the whole affair. "they were refusing to arrest the 11 already tied up by the guards," alleged one. "and when my son called the oc, the officer was clearly reluctant to respond, pretending he did not know where the place of occurrence could be," the neighbour said. "this is absolutely unacceptable ... how can this happen in the middle of the night? and on gulshan avenue?" fumed another neighbour, who saw at the first hand much of what followed the abortive bid to oust the helpless couple. "this is daylight robbery in the middle of the night," a qaiyum relative said. police arrested 11 of the assailants, but at least four managed to escape. a number of witnesses said police appeared "reluctant to respond". qaiyum's nephew ruhul quader told bdnews24.com the attackers had entered the house by breaking down the doors. but four of the raiders were detained by guards from the house next door, belonging businessman abdul awal mintoo, a former fbcci president. the other seven were overpowered inside qaiyum's house compound. the eighty-seven year old qaiyum said: "we bought this house and have been living in it since 1970. how could this happen?" salman f rahman, former fbcci president and qaiyum's relative, went to the scene after he was informed of the incident. the qaiyum family said a general diary had already been registered with the gulshan police by atn bangla, which claimed the house belonged to the tv station. "the attackers came with a huge signboard," said a neighbour. the board, still propped up in the driveway hours later, read: 'atn bangla have bought and own this plot 3ws(a)69'. detainees remanded a metropolitan magistrate gave gulshan police two days to question the 11 detainees. investigation officer jahangir alam mondal asked for seven-day remand. metropolitan magistrate munshi abdul majid rejected their bail petitions. the case statement seems to be shrouded in mystery, majid said. defence lawyers advocates akm sohrab, rafiqul islam ripon, golam sarwar said in the hearing that the case had been filed upon a heated argument over non-payment of house rent. the bail petition claimed the prime accused in the case was the nephew of the "house owner", who had an altercation with the plaintiff over the payment of house rent as the latter had not paid overdue rent for long. how it all happened shafiqul islam, a guard of the house of qaiyum, told bdnews24.com that a few people knocked at the main gate while two to three men got over the wall, held him hostage and opened the gate. some eight to 10 armed people with black clothes wrapped around their faces got down inside the house complex from a microbus, which had no number plate, shafiqul said. qaiyum's domestic help razia begum said that assailants were armed with rods, hockey sticks, machetes, knives and firearms. the intruders took qaiyum to the microbus and also tried to take his wife out of the house. they vandalised the furniture of the house, she said. ruhul quader, a relative of the qaiyums, said as neighbours came out, the intruders tried to flee. seven of them were arrested from qaiyum's house and four others from abdul awal mintu's house. ruhul said the atn bangla authorities filed a general diary with gulshan police station a few days back, claiming that the house belonged to the tv station. harun-or-rashid, assistant police commissioner of gulshan zone, said the atn bangla chairman, mahfuzur rahman, claimed the house to be his and mentioned quaiyum as tenant in the diary. ruhul said police officers 'sharif' and hasan mahmud from gulshan police station had came to the house two to three days back and said qaiyum was not the owner but a tenant. they wanted to talk with qaiyum. the arrestees are kabir chowdhury, ashraful ari, saifur rahman, sujan, mokhtar, nazmul, sohel, azim, shahidul islam, rashedul islam and shahin. bdnews24 --- money whitening debate rages  abdur rahim harmachi bdnews24.com senior correspondent dhaka, jun 14 (bdnews24.com)debate has been raging among the country's trade bodies since the finance minister, laying out the government's maiden budget last week, extended the facility to 'whiten black money', imposing a 10 percent tax and with the proviso that it was invested in certain sectors. the country's apex trade body fbcci has welcomed the move, a number of other business bodies including the mcci, bgmea, bkmea and the ficci have slammed it. in an unprecedented measure, the government has proposed a lengthy three-year amnesty to draw 'black money' into the capital market, start-up industries and physical infrastructure. the federation of bangladesh chamber of commerce and industries (fbcci) president annisul huq thanked the government for the move on saturday. "investment will get a boost. more jobs will be generated." on the other hand, the foreign investment chamber of commerce and industry (ficci) president waliur rahman said it was a shame that the fbcci had appreciated the proposal. "those who regularly pay tax will be frustrated with the move of three years' scope for legalising undisclosed money. it will erode the culture of paying taxes built over the years," waliur told bdnews24.com on sunday. "this will cause reduction in revenue collection and no business body can support such a proposal." abdus salam murshedi, president of bangladesh garment manufacturers and exporters association (bgmea), said the culture of allowing 'black money to be whitened' should end. "undisclosed money is being encouraged as repeated scopes are being given to legalise it. how long will it continue?" said murshedi. the metropolitan chamber of commerce and industry (mcci) has long been protesting any scope for whitening black money. the finance minister proposed "acceptance of undisclosed money without any question during the period from 1 july 2009 to 30 june 2012 provided that a payment of 10% tax is made and it is invested in certain new industries  physical infrastructure facilities and shares of listed companies of stock exchange." click here for details the new industries include start-ups in textiles, garments, leather, drugs, it enabled services and ship building. the infrastructure facilities include ports and container facilities, fly-overs and elevated roads, mono and underground railways, telecoms sector except mobile phone, water and waste treatment plants and solar energy plant. homeowners too will have the chance to buy with no questions asked. "to address the housing problem, i propose to accept the investment incurred for the purchase of flat or construction of houses without any question by paying a tax at a specific rate according to the measurement of the flat/house," said muhith in his budget speech. 'money whitening' facilities have only ever been offered for months at a time by previous governments. in the lead-up to the budget, analysts on the wholeas opposed to the business communityhad been critical of such amnesties for tax dodgers, on both ethical and practical grounds. muhith, the day after presenting his budget in parliament, said reality forced him to extend the provision to boost flagging investment. "ethics lost out to expediency on the question of giving the scope to whiten black money," he told reporters at a post-budget press briefing on friday, as economists and analysts came down hard against the provision. muhith too has been consistently opposed to 'money whitening' schemes in the past, even speaking out against them in the lead up to the budget. "i personally believe the provision for whitening black money is unethical," he said again on friday. "the prime minister is also against it, but politics is the highest art of compromise," he said, explaining the rationale for the move. the finance minister in his budget speech last thursday said the facility was being given to boost investment, employment and to create more homeowners. "we would like to open up opportunities for employment for the common man and attain economic prosperity. there are many potential sectors of our economy where investments could carry forward our efforts for change," he said in his preamble to the proposed three-year amnesty. he also said housing was "a fundamental right of the people". "people invest their long saved money for buying flats or construction of own house, which they subsequently find difficult to explain to the income tax department," said muhith. bdn --- low thyroid? maybe you're an `elephant'  washington, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - low thyroid activity, one of the most treated conditions in the united states, may actually be a sign of longevity, researchers reported on friday. while they said it was far too soon for people taking thyroid pills to stop, they will be looking to see if the thyroid may hold the key to a long life, at least for some people. dr. martin surks and colleagues at the montefiore medical center and the albert einstein college of medicine in new york studied hundreds of people who had lived to be 100, and found evidence that people with low thyroid activity were more likely to be in that group. "we studied a large group of ashkenazi jews with exceptional longevity," surks told a news conference at a meeting of the endocrine society, specialists in human hormones. they used a large national survey of health to see what the average hormone levels are for people of various ages. the thyroid, located in the neck, is a kind of master gland, secreting hormones that affect metabolism. doctors usually check its activity by an indirect measure -- looking at levels of tsh, or thyroid stimulating hormone. high tsh levels suggest the thyroid is underactive, a condition known as hypothyroidism. low levels suggest it is overactive, known as hyperthyroidism. people with low thyroid function may lose hair, gain weight and feel sluggish, while those with overactive thyroids may lose weight, feel their hearts race and have trembling hands both can be easily treated with a daily pill. surks and colleagues found 15 to 20 percent of people over the age of 60 had tsh levels that suggest an underactive thyroid gland. he told the meeting he believed that may be normal for older people and may in fact be a sign of longevity. "we estimate that 70 percent of old people whose tsh was minimally elevated and who were considered to have hypothyroidism were actually in their age-specific limits," surks said in a telephone interview. old age they singled out 200 jews who had lived to be 100, and 400 of their children. two genetic changes were linked with low thyroid function but also with extreme old age. metabolic rate affects life span in animals. for instance, elephants have slow metabolic rates, slow heartbeats, and can live for decades, as opposed to mice, which have fast metabolisms and live for just months. it may be, surks said, that people with low thyroid function in old age were "elephants" with a slow metabolism who can live longer, as compared to 'mice" with fast metabolic rates who may have shorter natural life spans. "if you are an older person with high tsh, this suggests you are on the road to a long life," surks said. what worries him is that millions of people in the united states are being treated for hypothyroidism. "in north america, thyroid hormone is used at the drop of a hat," he said. his group is seeking to see if that might interfere with a person's natural life span. surks noted that having a low thyroid function before about age 50 is a separate condition and appropriately treated with hormones. he also plans studies to see what the biological function of having high tsh levels might mean for cells and ag --- at least 40 killed in south sudan river ambush: officials  khartoum, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - at least 40 south sudanese soldiers and civilians were killed when tribal fighters ambushed river barges carrying un food aid, in the latest in a string of ethnic attacks, officials said on sunday. armed members of the jikany nuer group opened fire on 27 boats loaded with emergency rations destined for an area controlled by the rival lou nuer tribe on friday afternoon, the un world food program said. hundreds have been killed and more than 135,000 displaced in south sudan in 2009 in a surge of tribal killings rooted it long-standing feuds over cattle but aggravated by political discontent and weapons left over from two decades of civil war. the minister of information for upper nile state thon mom told reuters friday's attack killed at least 40 people including troops from the south's sudan people's liberation army (spla) who were escorting the convoy. "women and children who were on the boats were also killed, either directly by bullets or by drowning after jumping into the river," said spla spokesman malaak ayuen ajok. he said the jikany nuer fighters had first demanded to search some of the barges, south of the settlement of nasir on the sobat river, suspecting they were carrying arms and ammunition to their lou nuer enemy. they searched one, finding only sorghum and other rations, but opened fire when the rest of the convoy continued on its journey, he added. both ajok and mom said they were awaiting detailed information on the attack. "it could be less than 40 killed. it could be more than 40 killed. we should find out later today," said ajok. innocent suffer the united nations said there were fears for the fate of thousands of displaced people in and around akobo now left without food aid after the attack. "there are people who are desperately in need of food," said the wfp's program director in south sudan michelle iseminger. "as always, it is the elderly, the women and the children who are most in need." the wfp flew in an emergency delivery of 10 metric tons of food aid on saturday, she added, short of the 735 metric tons that were either destroyed or looted from the boats. "this year there have been roughly 135,000 people displaced by the violence. this time last year it was about half that number, and the year before even less," iseminger said. "things are definitely getting worse and it is mostly the innocent who are suffering." heavy rains in sudan's semi-autonomous south have wiped out roads and left the sobat river, a tributary of the white nile, the only viable route for large deliveries of food aid to the remote area. analysts say the rise in tribal violence threatens the fragile peace in the region achieved after a 2005 accord ended more than two decades of north-south civil war. the 2005 comprehensive peace agreement promised national elections, due in february 2010, and a referendum on southern secession in 2011. but many in the south have been left frustrated by continuing lack of development and stagnation in the region's oil-fueled eco --- villa treble helps spain to 6-0 win in azerbaijan  madrid, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - david villa scored a sparkling hat-trick as spain strolled to a 6-0 win over azerbaijan in a friendly in baku on tuesday. the european champions, playing their final match before this month's confederations cup in south africa, dominated early possession and took a deserved lead in the 34th minute. alvaro arbeloa galloped down the right and villa, who earlier hit the post, smashed the liverpool defender's low cross high into net from the edge of the box. the valencia striker's second came five minutes later when he unleashed a left-foot shot from just outside the penalty area that had too much pace for azerbaijan goalkeeper farhad veliyev. cesc fabregas sustained a nasty head wound in winning a penalty shortly before halftime and villa slotted home from the spot for his 28th international goal in 44 matches. albert riera, substitute daniel guiza and fernando torres struck in the second half to complete the rout and the win stretched spain's unbeaten run to 32 matches going back to a 1-0 defeat to romania in cadiz in november 2006. it was their 12th straight victory since a 0-0 draw in the euro 2008 quarter-final against italy in june last year. villa's three strikes lifted him above emilio butragueno and fernando morientes into third in the list of spain's top scorers. he is now one behind fernando hierro and 16 short of top marksman raul who netted 44 times --- dissident neurosurgeon allowed to leave cuba  havana, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a prominent cuban neurosurgeon said on friday she had received permission to leave cuba, 15 years after breaking ranks with former leader fidel castro over the communist-ruled nation's healthcare system. hilda molina, 66, had complained publicly for years about being denied permission to travel to visit her aging mother, son and grandchildren in argentina. she asked the argentine government to intercede on her behalf last year. "i think this is an isolated gesture," molina told reuters at her home in havana, saying she believed cuban authorities had given her a travel permit only because of her 90-year-old mother's deteriorating health. molina said she was booked on a flight out of havana on saturday but had only been granted permission to leave cuba for three months. she said she wanted to live in cuba and planned to return after looking after her mother in argentina. "i think things will only change in this regard when no one has to ask for permission to leave cuba," she added, referring to how critics of cuba's one-party state have often been denied permission to travel abroad. "i'm always grateful to anyone who helps my family, even if they've made it suffer for 15 years," molina added. "god did not create anything that is totally evil." molina, who founded havana's prestigious international center for neurological rehabilitation (ciren), was elected to the cuban parliament in 1993. but she fell out with fidel castro and quit the party in 1994 after asserting that cuba was eroding its principle of free, quality healthcare for all by selling medical services to foreigners to meet its pressing needs for foreign currency. she maintained that, following the collapse of the soviet union, cuba began catering to "medical tourists" and turning cuban healthcare into a profit-making business with disparities in quality of treatment between cubans and foreigners. molina's mother was allowed to leave cuba last year, three months after raul castro took over as president, succeeding his older brother who retired due to health problems. fidel castro has said molina was forced out of the government for seeking to take over the state-run neurology center that she once headed. in the prologue to a book last year, he said molina's case provided "excellent material for imperialist blackmail against cuba." cuban authorities consider dissidents to be mercenaries working for the united states, which has openly supported opposition to cuba's government --- afghanistan, china to study opening border: minister  beijing, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - china and afghanistan have agreed to study opening the border between the two countries, afghanistan's foreign minister said on thursday, urging greater chinese investment and support for his nation. minister rangeen dadfar spanta, visiting china this week, told reuters the two sides had agreed to feasibility studies soon on opening the 76-kilometre (47-mile) border between them, which lies in remote mountains. the wakhan corridor joining the two sides could become a channel for energy and trade, including to broader central asia, said spanta, stressing that security risks in the area had to be first stifled to make that hope a reality. "i encourage china to be engaged by more investment in afghanistan," he said in an interview on the last day of his visit to beijing. "i hope in the future both countries can open the road, can build a direct connectivity between the two countries." the goal of opening a direct land route remains a distant one, and spanta did not say when that may happen. but kabul and washington officials have raised the prospect of china increasing investment and business in afghanistan. afghanistan relies on aid for around 90 percent of its budget, but its mines minister told reuters earlier this year that the country is sitting on vast reserves of mineral wealth. china, with its constant appetite for resources, would be a promising candidate to expand mining in afghanistan. china's top integrated copper producer, jiangxi copper co, and china metallurgical group corp, are already going ahead with exploration of the vast aynak copper mine, south of kabul, after they won the contract to develop it last year. spanta said he would welcome chinese bidding for the right to mine the big hajigak iron deposit, which was opened to tenders earlier this year. but the minister also said afghanistan must strengthen security and stability to encourage great investment. "i think the first obstacle is still the security issue," he said of opening up a trade corridor with china. "this is the main challenge that we have to face." spanta said that afghanistan was likely to see violence and militant attacks subside after the country holds its presidential election in august. chinese officials have said xinjiang region in their country's northwest, next to afghanistan, is exposed to militant threats from across the frontiers of south and central asia. human rights groups have said beijing has exaggerated that threat to justify harsh controls on the largely muslim uighur people who make up a little under half of xinjiang's popula --- continued sim tax a barrier to growth: amtob  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  mobile telecom operators have expressed disappointment over the continuation of the tk. 800 sim tax, saying growth projection for the industry, in the proposed budget for fy2009-2010, would remain a "paper projection". they also said keeping the telecom tax goes against the government's vision of a digital bangladesh. 'barrier to growth' sim tax is seen to be the biggest barrier to the growth of the mobile phone industry, the association of mobile telephone operators, bangladesh said at a press conference sunday. amtob president zakiul islam said mobile operators had so far invested more than tk 30,000 crore in building countrywide networks. "we fear that with the sim tax in place, future investment in the sector will suffer." "this is particularly true because new customers are from low income groups, and there is no business case for the operators to continue subsidising the sim tax, since each new customer brings low revenue," he said. the association chief said mobile-specific taxes levied on customers, such as the sim tax, had been fully subsidised by the mobile operators for the customers from 2006 to 2008 in the interest of growth. "however, growth almost ceased after operators removed the subsidy from late last year to avoid further losses." odver hesjedal, ceo of grameenphone, said sim should be removed as telcos were going for greater coverage in rural areas. telecom taxes in india were the lowest, and growth in that country the highest, in south asia, he added. muneer faruki, ceo of warid, the newest entrant in the market, said he feared smaller operators might have to "pack their bags and quit". 'paper projection' the operators point out that the projected revenue from sim tax, shown in the budget, will remain as a "projection on paper", while the reality is that the government's revenue from sim tax has declined by 65 percent between q1 '08 and q1 '09, to tk 147 crore from tk 426 crore. a survey by mobile operators shows that withdrawal of sim tax will result in higher market penetration to reach 56.5 percent of total population in 5 years and will yield tk 5,000 crore revenue for the government by 2013. on the other hand, if sim tax continues, penetration will not cross 37 percent and the dream of a digital bangladesh will never be met, said amtob. the association hoped that government would withdraw the sim tax to support continued growth of the industry. --- pakistani pilots don't want to stay in top hotels  karachi, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pilots from pakistan's national airline said on thursday they do not want to stay in the country's top hotels after the pearl continental hotel was bombed in the city of peshawar. a senior pakistan international airlines (pia) pilot was among nine people killed on tuesday when militants forced their way through the hotel gate and a suicide truck-bomber drove up and set off his explosives. two pia cabin crew members were wounded in the attack on peshawar's top hotel. "everyone wants to stay at a good hotel but life is more important," said a pia pilot who declined to be identified. "i want to stay away from all high-profile hotels in pakistan as they're not safe." one of the two top hotels in the capital, islamabad, was bombed in september and 55 people were killed. a spokesman for the pakistan airline pilots' association said his members wanted to say in low-key, downmarket accommodation. "all around pakistan, wherever we go, pia can arrange rest houses for us," said the spoke --- venues for 2010 soccer world cup  johannesburg, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - next year's soccer world cup will be held in 10 stadiums around south africa for a month from june 11. following are brief descriptions of each venue: three stadiums are concentrated in gauteng, the economic heartland of south africatwo in johannesburg and one in pretoriaresulting in an unusual concentration of world cup matches in one area. johannesburg the economic and business capital of south africa in its richest region. it became a city in the late 19th century during a gold rush to mine the rich witwatersrand reef. known by inhabitants as jozi or joburg, it was also a centre of political agitation against apartheid before majority rule in 1994, especially in the township of soweto. two stadiums, soccer city and ellis park, will host 15 matches including the opening game and final. soccer city - this is headquarters for the world cup organising committee and is close to soweto. now being upgraded, the stadium is built to resemble a calabash or drinking vessel and will be the biggest venue in africa with a capacity of nearly 95,000. ellis park - a famous rugby stadium built in 1928 and reconstructed in 1982, it has been upgraded. used for finals of the 1995 rugby world cup. now home ground of prominent south african premier league club orlando pirates. capacity 61,000. pretoria south africa's administrative capital, where presidents are sworn in at the hilltop union buildings. former headquarters of the apartheid state, where nelson mandela's inauguration in 1994 carried great symbolic significance. despite being the capital, this is a small, quiet city, overshadowed by nearby johannesburg. the approach from the south is dominated by the hulking voortrekker monument, a symbol of afrikaner rule, which commemorates the 1838 defeat of 12,000 zulus by a small boer force. the loftus versfeld stadium has a capacity of 55,000. six matches will be played here. cape town the so-called "mother city" is south africa's most visited and is regarded by many as its most beautiful. it is a vibrant, multicultural city on the atlantic ocean, one of three coastal venues. cape town is backed by iconic table mountain and is where south africa's parliament sits. the notorious robben island prison, where mandela spent two decades, is offshore and is now a place of pilgrimage for tourists. the country's best-known wine-growing region and the popular coastal "garden route" are nearby. the new green point stadium is being built on a former suburban golf course. political disputes with the opposition-led city government have held up construction and it will be the last venue to be finished. organisers say completion is expected by february 2010. capacity 68,000. eight matches will be played here, including a semi-final. durban another coastal venue, on the tropical indian ocean, durban is africa's busiest port and is home to the biggest indian community in the country, many of them descendants of indentured labourers brought by the british to work the sugar cane fields. durban is gateway to kwazulu-natal, home of south africa's biggest ethnic group which includes new president jacob zuma. the city centre boasts a "golden mile" of beaches, promenades, hotels and restaurants. the stadium has a capacity of 70,000 with two parallel archways 100 metres above the roof which carry a cable car giving views of the indian ocean. seven matches, including a semi-final, to be played here. bloemfontein south africa's judicial capital, seat of the country's highest court and capital of free statea staunchly afrikaans province. bloemfontein, which means "fountain of flowers" in dutch, is in the very centre of the country. the free state stadium is one of the smaller venues, being upgraded to a capacity of 48,000. six matches scheduled. port elizabeth third coastal venue and gateway to hundreds of kilometres of unspoiled beaches along the sunshine and wild coasts of eastern cape province. this region is the heartland of the xhosa ethnic group to which both mandela and second black president thabo mbeki belong, as well as many other important anti-apartheid heroes. the city's first international football stadium is being built on the edge of north end lake. capacity 48,000. will host eight matches including the third-place playoff. nelspruit capital of the northeastern mpumalanga region that borders mozambique, containing south africa's most famous game park, the kruger, and spectacular scenery of mountains and waterfalls. the town is in the hot, dry eastern zone of the province. mpumalanga's first international standard stadium, with 18 roof supports designed to resemble giraffes, is being built in nelspruit with a capacity of 46,000. four matches to be played here. polokwane in the centre of limpopo province bordering mozambique, zimbabwe and botswana. the area was home of the fabled rain queen. the town became famous as the venue for a congress of the ruling african national congress (anc) in late 2007 at which zuma was elected leader of the party, deposing mbeki and eventually leading to his election as south africa's president in april. a new stadium has been built with a capacity of 45,000 and will host four matches. rustenburg centre of the world's biggest platinum mining area in the foothills of the magaliesburg mountains, northwest of johannesburg. the city is close to two tourist attractions, the pilanesberg game park and sun city, south africa's equivalent to disneyland and an unabashed temple to kitsch. the royal bafokeng stadium, named after the people of the areathe country's richest tribe because of the platinum mineshas a capacity of 42,000. six matches to be played here --- indonesia forest fires flare, malaysia hit by haze  pekanbaru, indonesia, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the number of forest fires raging in indonesia's sumatra island has increased, with wind blowing choking smoke over parts of malaysia and slashing visibility, officials said on friday. the fires are a regular occurrence during the dry season in areas such as sumatra and borneo, but the situation has deteriorated in the last decade, with timber and plantation firms often blamed for deliberately starting fires to clear land. the worst haze hit in 1997-98, when drought caused by the el nino weather phenomenon led to major indonesian fires. the smoke spread to singapore, malaysia and south thailand and cost more than $9 billion in damage to tourism, transport and farming. risks for another bad period appear to have risen with the prospect of a return of el nino this year. an indonesian official said 47 hotspots were recorded in riau province in sumatra by thursday based on satellite surveillance, and temperatures were abnormally high at 35 degrees c (95 f). "there is a potential for the number of fire spots to rise and haze conditions to worsen if there is no rain," said blucer dolok saribu, head of the meteorology, climatology and geophysics agency in riau's provincial capital of pekanbaru. the haze is likely to remain a threat until august at least. the rainy season usually begins in september. the city, which frequently suffers from haze, had been shrouded in unpleasant yellowy, smoke earlier this week, although by friday visibility had improved after some rains. rahmad tauladani, a meteorological analyst in pekanbaru, said wind had blown the haze over neighbouring malaysia, but said that no flights had been cancelled so far, with visibility of 6,000 metres, above the minimum to allow flights of 1,000 metres. in malaysia, the haze had reduced visibility in some areas surrounding the capital kuala lumpur to as low as 5,000 metres, the department of environment (doe) said. two out of 51 areas in the country monitored by the department recorded air readings that were unhealthy. "we are monitoring the situation. we will decide later if any action should be taken," the doe's director-general rosnani ibrahim told reuters by telephone. spurred on by the 1997-98 fires, southeast asian countries signed the asean agreement on transboundary haze pollution in 2002, but indonesia has yet to ratify the pact. it is illegal to carry out slash-and-burn land clearing in indonesia, but prosecutions take time and few have stuck. weather expert tauladani said the current high temperatures had increased the risk that fires could spread to peatland areas. environmentalists are particularly concerned over an increasing trend towards converting peatland forests. once these areas are drained, peat soil is highly flammable, producing more smoke and carbon emissions than other soil types. indonesia's neighbours have been frustrated by jakarta's failure to stop the annual fires. indonesia has identified the asean haze pact as one of six "crucial" bills that should be passed before the current session of parliament expires at the end of september. but with politicians distracted by the july 8 presidential election, it is unclear whether there will be time in the current parliamentary term to pass it. the pact calls for signatories to work together on monitoring and combating  --- ahmadinejad scores big win in iran, mousavi calls foul  tehran, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad resoundingly won iran's election, preliminary official results showed on saturday, but his moderate challenger alleged irregularities and claimed victory for himself. the level of the incumbent's support, roughly twice as many votes as former prime minister mirhossein mousavi with most ballots counted, confounded analyst predictions of a tight race. a bitterly fought campaign generated intense excitement inside iran and strong interest around the world, with policymakers looking for signs of a change in tehran's approach in a long-running row with the west over its nuclear ambitions. listing several complaints before official results were announced, mousavi said many people had not been able to vote and that there had been a lack of ballot papers. he also accused authorities of blocking text messaging, with which his campaign tried to reach young, urban voters. "i am the definite winner of this presidential election," mousavi told a news conference. but the islamic republic's election commission said ahmadinejad was ahead with 64.8 percent of the votes from friday's presidential election in the world's fifth biggest oil exporter after more than 30 million ballots had been counted. mousavi had around 32 percent support, said the commission. based on an interior ministry estimate of a maximum 80 percent turnout of iran's 46 million eligible voters, he could not beat ahmadinejad with the votes still to be counted. the official news agency irna said: "dr ahmadinejad, by winning most votes ... has secured his victory." state media said final results would be announced at 10 a.m. (1:30 a.m. edt). trita parsi, president of the washington-based national iranian american council, expressed disbelief at the wide margin in ahmadinejad's favor. "it is difficult to feel comfortable that this occurred without any cheating," parsi said. speaking in washington before the results were released, u.s. president barack obama said his administration was excited about the debate taking place in iran and he hoped it would help the two countries to engage "in new ways." street scuffles western capitals had hoped a victory for mousavi could help ease tensions with the west, which is concerned about tehran's nuclear plans, and improve chances of engagement with obama, who has talked about a new start in ties with tehran. now they will have to find a way to deal with ahmadinejad's government if they want to make progress in defusing the dispute over iran's nuclear programme. the three-week election campaign was marked by mudslinging, with ahmadinejad accusing his rivals of corruption. they said he was lying about the state of the economy. it was unclear how mousavi's supporters, who thronged the streets of tehran nightly in the run-up to friday's vote, might react to an ahmadinejad victory. u.s. strategic intelligence group stratfor called the situation "potentially explosive," with a considerable risk of unrest. scuffles broke out early on saturday between police and chanting mousavi supporters in a tehran square, a reuters witness said. police say they have increased security across the capital to prevent any trouble. all gatherings have been banned until the publication of final results. shortly before voting ended, some tehran residents said they were unable to make international phone calls and some internet servers went down. ahmadinejad draws his bedrock support from rural areas or poorer big city neighborhoods. mousavi enjoys strong backing in wealthier urban centers, and was expected to attract votes from women and young iranians. two other candidates attracted only tiny voter support. long queues had formed at voting centers, after a heated campaign in which inflation -- officially around 15 percent -- and high unemployment were leading issues. ahmadinejad, 52, won power four years ago on a pledge to revive the values of the 1979 islamic revolution. he has steadily built up iran's nuclear programme, rejecting western charges that it is aimed at building an atomic bomb, and stirred international outrage by denying the holocaust and calling for israel to be wiped from the map. mousavi, 67, rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but analysts say he would have brought a different approach to iran-u.s. ties and talks on the nuclear issue. ultimately, however, nuclear and foreign policy are determined by the country's supreme leader, ayatollah ali khamenei. the united states has had no ties with iran since shortly after the revolution but obama said in washington the united states had "tried to send a clear message that we think there is the possibility of change" in relations. --- iraq's "lions" eye crucial first cup game  baghdad, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a winning debut for iraq in the confederations cup against hosts south africa on sunday will be crucial for the team that stunned fans and opponents to win the 2007 asian cup, the head of the iraqi football federation said. the "lions of mesopotamia" will not play in next year's world cup finals having been eliminated during qualifying, so the middle eastern nation has something to prove in the eight-team mini-tournament. iraq face a tall order to progress from group a, which also includes new zealand and spain, the world's top-ranked side and the favourites to lift the world cup in 2010. "our first match with south africa will be the key to our progressing to the second round," hussein saeed, head of the iraqi football federation, told reuters. "it is a great honour for iraq to be participating  we want to bring back the prestige of iraqi football, be the best representatives of our country we can, and to play an honourable role in this championship." the country's unexpected victory in the asian cup two years ago made headlines around the world and triggered celebrations across a football-mad nation ravaged by years of conflict. sunday's match will be shown to iraqis in baghdad on three giant screens placed around the capital. key to their south african hopes will be new national coach, bora milutinovic, saeed said. the 64-year-old serbian has previously guided mexico, costa rica, the united states and nigeria to the second round stages of successive world cups. "his experience, ability and good ability to deal with the psychological and learning aspects make us think he will be able to achieve good and honourable results," saeed said. few suspect iraq have any chance of beating spain, who have been on fire since winning the european title last year. but a win against the out-of-form hosts, followed by victory over minnows new zealand ranked 82nd in the world by fifa, behind iraq's 77th placeon june 20 could see them grab the second qualifying spot for the semi-finals. iraq's key figure on the pitch, hawar mulla mohammed, who plays as a striker for club side anorthosis famagusta in cyprus, said group a was nowhere near as daunting as group bwhich brings together brazil, italy, the united states and egypt. "we are self-confident and hopefully we will perform in a satisfactory way to please our audience," he told al-hurra tv. other players said they recognised that beating the hosts in front of thousands of home fans on sunday would be tough. "i think it is a hard mission for us as a team and as players," midfield playmaker nashaat akram, who recently signed a contract with dutch team fc twente, told al-hurra --- with digital transition, more focus on smaller tvs  washington, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the friday deadline for a nationwide transition from analog to crisper digital television transmission has us retailers hoping for a boost in sales of smaller tvs as consumers upgrade secondary sets in spare rooms. the digital transition has already unleashed a surge in sales of converter boxes to consumers who want to keep their existing tv sets, and an uptick in cable and satellite tv service sales for americans who want to upgrade. now, retailers are hoping that consumers will turn their attention to replacing analog tvs in bedrooms and spare rooms that are not connected to cable or satellite service. "those are good candidates for over-the-air digital televisions," said ross rubin, director of industry analysis at the npd group, a market research firm based in port washington, new york. the u.s. government spent about $2 billion and 13 years to reach the friday deadline for the final 1,000 broadcasters to switch to digital transmission, freeing up analog signals for local police and firefighters. about 760 broadcasters already made the change before friday. to help american consumers get ready, the government distributed some 59 million coupons -- each worth $40 -- to help defray the cost of buying converter boxes. only about half have been used so far, meaning there will continue to be some sales over the next 90 days until the coupons expire, according to analysts. the exercise has been a cash cow for converter box makers and retailers like radioshack corp. "radio shack has clearly benefited from very significant sales of converter boxes over the last several quarters," said barclays capital's michael lasser. the surge in dtv box sales -- which generated about $200 million last year -- is temporary and has already been priced into the stocks, lasser said. now, he says, the trick is how well radio shack can capitalize on increased store traffic by placing dtv boxes next to other peripherals designed to catch the buyer's eye. "this is just another step in the evolution of radio shack to define its niche in the rapidly changing marketplace for consumer electronics," lasser said. cable and satellite companies saw a boost in first quarter earnings from the digital transition. comcast corp and time warner cable inc posted higher-than-expected quarterly profits, and raised the possibility of more subscriber additions in the current quarter. but both also said customer growth will likely slow in the second quarter compared with the first quarter, with the u.s. economy not yet out of the woods. costly for industry the digital tv transition was initially set for february but was delayed by congress when it became clear that nearly 6 million households were not yet ready. currently, about 2.5 percent of american tv-watching households, or 2.8 million, still rely on antennas to receive television shows this week, according to government officials who cited a study by the nielsen company. the transition ordered by congress to free up analog signals for public service use has been costly. broadcasters spent $5 billion in infrastructure upgrades and another $1.2 billion on consumer education campaigns, according to the national association of broadcasters. the government is also providing americorps volunteers to help install the dtv boxes. commerce secretary gary locke told reporters he was surprised to find elderly consumers better prepared for the transition than younger, internet-driven consumers. "maybe it's because they (the younger consumers) rely on new forms of media for news and programing and don't care about television anymore," locke said --- us envoy assures israel of strong alliance  jerusalem, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us envoy george mitchell said on tuesday washington was seeking swift renewal of israeli-palestinian peace talks and promised israel its alliance with the united states would remain strong despite differences. "we all share an obligation to create the conditions for the prompt resumption and early conclusion of negotiations," mitchell said at a meeting with israeli president shimon peres. in the most public rift between the united states and israel in a decade, president barack obama and prime minister benjamin netanyahu are at odds over jewish settlement expansion and the israeli leader's reluctance to endorse palestinian statehood. with israelis fearing that obama hoped to repair his country's image among arabs by fostering a dispute with netanyahu, mitchell spoke in conciliatory terms to reporters. "let me be clear. these are not disagreements among adversaries. the united states and israel are and will remain close allies and friends," mitchell said. mitchell, obama's special envoy to the middle east, reaffirmed washington's commitment to the establishment of a palestinian state "side by side in peace and security with the jewish state of israel." in an address to the muslim world in cairo last week, obama called on israel to stop settlement expansion in the occupied west bank and accept the right of palestinians to a state. peres, whose post is largely ceremonial, echoed obama, saying it was time "to take the bull by the horns" and pursue "a state for us and state for the palestinians." policy speech under pressure to soften his positions, netanyahu will spell out his policy on peacemaking with the palestinians in a speech on sunday. his security cabinet was due to meet on wednesday to consider us calls to ease the blockade of the gaza strip, which is controlled by hamas islamists who oppose us-sponsored peace efforts. netanyahu, who met mitchell later in the day, said he hoped their talks would "advance our quest for peace and security with our palestinian neighbors and the entire arab world." "that's our goal. it's our common goal, and i look forward to working with you to accomplish it," netanyahu told the us envoy. mitchell said he hoped the allies could work through the issues, calling them "complex and many," to reach a regional peace. he also assured netanyahu the united states' "commitment to israel's security is unshakeable." mitchell will meet palestinian president mahmoud abbas on wednesday. abbas has said it would be useless to resume talks with israel unless netanyahu froze settlement building and accepted a two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. obama spoke to netanyahu by phone on monday. the white house said the president "reiterated the principal elements of his cairo speech, including his commitment to israel's security." netanyahu has said israel's security is paramount in peace efforts and any self-governing palestinian entity must be demilitarized and have limited powers of sovereignty --- instant view: iran's election result staggers analysts  tehran, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hard-liner mahmoud ahmadinejad defeated moderate challenger mirhossein mousavi by a surprisingly wide margin in iran's presidential election, official results showed on saturday. mousavi derided the tally as a "dangerous charade." here are some analysts' views on the outcome of friday's vote: karim sadjapour, analyst at carnegie endowment for international peace: "i don't think anyone anticipated this level of fraudulence. this was a selection, not an election. at least authoritarian regimes like syria and egypt have no democratic pretences. in retrospect it appears this entire campaign was a show: (supreme leader) ayatollah (ali) khamenei wasn't ever going to let ahmadinejad lose." alireza nader, rand corporation: "ahmadinejad has of course won the election. what is surprising is his share of the vote -- 64 percent according to some estimates. the opposition in iran may protest this election as being fraudulent. mousavi's supporters were hopeful that he had a great chance of winning and that his presidency would lead to much needed reforms. their enthusiasm may turn into frustration, and perhaps even active opposition against the government. although the president is not the chief decision-maker, ahmadinejad's win is a sign that iranian politics is in stage of flux. "the power of the traditional ruling elite -- men such as ayatollah rafsanjani -- has been effectively challenged by ahmadinejad and his supporters, including top-ranking and fundamentalist members of the revolutionary guards. "another ahmadinejad term may translate into continued social and political repression, economic mismanagement and more assertive foreign policies, especially on the nuclear program. it is not clear how ahmadinejad's victory will affect u.s.-iranian engagement. there is still some room for limited engagement on specific issues, such as afghanistan. but ahmadinejad's victory, and renewed sense of confidence, may make u.s. engagement with iran more difficult than many had expected. regardless, the ultimate decision will be made by supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei and the top echelon of the revolutionary guards." mark fitzpatrick, senior fellow for non-proliferation at international institute for strategic studies in london: "i'm surprised at the regime's audacity in declaring such a large margin for ahmadinejad, given that in the run-up, the momentum seemed to be in the other direction. the hardliners in the regime seem to have exercised all their levers of power to keep ahmadinejad in place. undoubtedly, one of the key reasons was their concern about losing control of the country through policies such as willingness to engage with the united states. "all of the candidates wanted u.s. engagement, including ahmadinejad and the supreme leader, but the supreme leader wanted it to be on his timetable and his agenda. so ahmadinejad's victory does not mean there cannot be engagement. he just wants credit for it. what it does mean is that there will be no change in the management of the nuclear portfolio. ahmadinejad wants engagement with the united states without making any concessions at all in the nuclear program. so it doesn't augur well for an early and peaceful settlement of the nuclear dispute." ali ansari, director of institute for iranian studies at university of st andrews in scotland: "the election results are incredible. it's just nonsense ... if it was a genuine election landslide, surely people should be out on the streets in euphoria ... "the potential for unrest is high. people will wake up today in iran in a state of shock, not that ahmadinejad has won, but that he has won on such a dramatic scale ... the scale of the election victory that they have given ahmadinejad means he must have won big in the cities. that is simply not borne out by what people were saying in the major cities (before the vote)." elliott abrams, former senior bush administration official now with the council on foreign relations: "both the apparent victory and the apparent fraud greatly complicate the obama strategy. my advice is that they had better be thinking about more sanctions. the one hope might be that if a new ahmadinejad government is viewed as illegitimate by many iranians, that government might be anxious to avoid further economic distress. in that context, sanctions that bite might be a powerful tool and might push the regime into a serious negotiation. but it is more likely that the engagement strategy has been dealt a very heavy blow. "at this point one has to wonder about vote fraud. the two-to-one margin for ahmadinejad may well appear to millions of iranians as bizarre and unlikely, and meant to avoid a run-off he might lose. if that's what millions of voters think, especially young voters in this very young country (70 percent of the population is under age 30), there could well be large demonstrations. and the legitimacy not only of an ahmadinejad second term, but of the whole regime, would be in question in the eyes of many iranians." trita parsi, president of national iranian american council: "i'm in disbelief that this could be the case. it's one thing if ahmadinejad had won the first round with 51 or 55 percent. but this number ... just sounds tremendously strange in a way that doesn't add up ... it is difficult to feel comfortable that this occurred without any cheating. "if there is a fight in iran and there are accusations of fraud and mousavi declares himself a winner and you have numerous leading clerics and other figures recognizing mousavi, you are going to have paralysis and significant infighting in iran. that will complicate (u.s. president barack) obama's engagement. it will be more difficult to deal with ahmadinejad because he has been discredited at home. he may not be able to deal with anyone because there is paralysis in iran. it will cause the obama administration to lose very precious time. obama is already trying to win time within washington and from washington's allies. there are already pressures from congress, from pro-israeli corners, from israel itself, from some of the persian gulf arab states, for a strict timeline for these efforts. their patience for how long obama can pursue this is strictly limited. "for this year, the democrats in congress will give him the benefit of the doubt, but that means he needs to get things started. already under normal circumstances, you wouldn't have the new president take power until august. he would need to get his cabinet approved by parliament. you are talking already early october before the iranians are really ready to deal. that's under normal circumstances, which gives obama very little time. the last thing he needs is indecisiveness in the election result that will cause things to be delayed even further." shibley telhami, professor at the university of maryland: "the most important element in this election is in domestic politics. people may interpret it as a rejection of international pressure, but i don't think that is corre --- car bomb rips through south iraq market, 33 killed  baghdad wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a car bomb ripped through a crowded market in southern iraq on wednesday, killing at least 33 people and prompting angry protests by residents about the failure to protect them, officials and witnesses said. police swiftly locked down al-bathaa, a shia muslim town 30 km (20 miles) west of nassariya that has seen little violence, while hospital officials appealed for help from neighboring cities to cope with the wounded. colonel aziz al-atabi, media director for the iraqi army's 10th division, said 33 people were killed and 70 wounded. the governor of nassariya blamed the attack on al qaeda. pictures posted online by local journalists showed the charred wreck of a car the bomb was planted in, burned body parts and bloodstained rags among vegetables strewn on the floor. high school teacher hussein salim said the market was supposed to be guarded by the police. he said he rushed to the scene and helped gather body parts, some of which had been blown onto the roof of nearby homes. "how could the car enter the market? it was crowded with people ... the police neglected their job," he said. "i saw five children and six women among the dead." salim said angry locals protested when the area's police chief and talib al-hassan, the nassariya governor, arrived on the scene, prompting the governor's bodyguards to open fire. al-hassan told reuters they had only fired in the air. "as the explosion was big, some people gathered at the scene to watch or look for their loved ones. the security forces shot in the air to disperse them and save their lives," he said. "we accuse al-qaeda. the area is open and there are many roads leading to it. we have little clues about the accused. the security forces are working to get precise information." al-hassan gave a lower toll of 19 killed and 65 wounded, and said he had replaced the al-bathaa police chief. us military helicopters hovered overhead after the blast. the sectarian bloodshed and insurgency unleashed by the 2003 us-led invasion has fallen sharply across iraq since its peak in 2006/07, and the shi'ite muslim south has tended to be one of the quietest areas. but insurgents, including sunni islamist al qaeda, who view shi'a as heretics, continue to carry out devastating car and suicide bomb attacks. analysts say violence is likely to rise ahead of parliamentary elections next january, which will pit not just shia parties against once dominant sunnis and minority kurds, but also against rival shia groups. the withdrawal from iraqi city centers by us combat troops at the end of the month is another potential trigger point for an increase in attacks, iraqi officials --- eleven policemen killed in maoist attack in jharkhand  ranchi, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - eleven policemen were killed in a landmine blast set off by maoist rebels in jharkhand on wednesday, a senior government official said. five policemen were injured in the attack in a forest in west singhbhum district, 240 km from ranchi. "the security personnel belonging to both state police and crpf who were on long range patrolling were ambushed by maoist rebels," jyoti b. tubid told reuters. thousands have been killed in the maoist insurgency which began in the late 1960s and now stretches throughout rural areas of eastern, central and southern i --- zimbabwe prime minister to ask obama for us help  washington, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - zimbabwean prime minister morgan tsvangirai will seek help for his cash-strapped government when he meets president barack obama at the white house on friday, but will likely be told more reforms are needed first. the meeting will underscore the quandary obama faces -- how to support tsvangirai's efforts to rebuild zimbabwe's shattered economy without bolstering president robert mugabe. western states accuse mugabe of years of misrule and largely shun him. obama extended sanctions against zimbabwe in march, targeting individuals close to mugabe and some local companies, but he has so far declined to follow in the footsteps of the bush administration and call for mugabe to step down. tsvangirai, a former labor official and longtime opposition leader, is in washington as part of a tour of europe and the united states to rally support for the power-sharing government he formed with mugabe in february after bitterly disputed elections that saw his supporters beaten and jailed. but he is returning home mostly empty-handed after donors told him they wanted to see more economic, political and social reforms to convince them the unity government was not simply a cover to extend the nearly three-decade rule of mugabe, 85, who has been in power since zimbabwe's independence from britain in 1980. "i am very realistic about what we need to do and what our shortcomings are," tsvangirai said in an interview with reuters this week in which he acknowledged his government still had to earn the confidence of the international community. obama is expected to renew a u.s. pledge of humanitarian aid to feed the millions of zimbabweans in need of food but will also express concern that not enough has been done by the new unity government to address human rights concerns and take steps toward holding free and fair elections. "some important progress has been made in zimbabwe since the power-sharing agreement was signed last year and the prime minister's party was brought into government, but there is still a long way to go," said mike hammer, spokesman for the white house's national security council. "the united states seeks to support those working for full implementation of the agreement, and to find ways to ease the suffering of the zimbabwean people without bolstering those forces still clinging to corruption and repression," he said. 'difficult road ahead' the white house said in a statement that obama and tsvangirai would "discuss the difficult road ahead in zimbabwe." zimbabwe's public works minister said on thursday the country needed more than $2 billion to kick-start job creation and ease an unemployment rate of about 90 percent. the government has said it needs $10 billion to rebuild the economy, which it has forecast will grow by 2.8 percent in 2009. analysts say foreign currency shortages could curb any economic recovery. tsvangirai used a speech to a washington think tank this week to spotlight reforms implemented by the unity government, saying they had led to "real change." they included stopping the printing of the zimbabwean dollar to tackle record inflation, scrapping a requirement for media outlets to be licensed and withdrawing the riot police from the streets of the capital, harare. "the current changes that have taken place in the country are irreversible," he said in his interview with reuters. but the top u.s. diplomat for africa, johnnie carson, said on monday that washington remained to be convinced and that it had no plans for now to offer major aid or lift sanctions. --- us seniors hunt jobs as retirement hopes fade  kansas city, missouri, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - jean johnson is 81 years old and suffering from diabetes. but instead of relaxing in retirement, she recently started a new job. "i need money. my social security check just doesn't make it, with rent and the gas bill to pay," said johnson, who took a job in march at a library in danforth, illinois. "i need to work." amid the economic downturn, shrinking retirement accounts, increasing costs for food and medicine, and stiff competition for even entry-level jobs, evidence is building that the dream of a comfortable retirement is dying for many americans. the ranks of the elderly looking for work has swelled more than 120 percent to more than 1.8 million in the last year. among that group, those who were 75 and older increased by 80 percent, according to data from the national council on aging. there are some 29 million seniors - those 55 and older - employed or actively looking for work in the united states, which is about 18 percent of the civilian labor force. and their numbers are expected to grow. "this economic crisis has had just a horrible impact on the entire population, but it has had a very severe impact on older people," said sandra nathan, workforce development vice president at the national council on aging. nathan said her organization was seeing a record number of people seeking assistance with job training and employment. "before people used to retire and stay retired. now what we have are people 75 years old and older who are still in the workforce," nathan said. with a national unemployment rate at 9.4 percent, the highest in more than 25 years, the odds are stacked against older americans seeking work. an array of new or expanded programs, however, are aimed at leveling the playing field. the u.s. government has allocated stimulus dollars to bolster programs targeted at getting older workers onto private payrolls and off of the shaky u.s. social security system. even individuals over 75 are being encouraged to get training and job hunting help. "the recovery act funds came about at exactly the right time," said judith gilbert, who heads the older worker program at the u.s. department of labor. stimulus money the department is funding efforts in all 50 states that employ low-income earners who are 55 and over and employed in government or nonprofit jobs that are considered to benefit communities. the goal is to provide these workers an immediate source of income and ease entry into similar jobs in the private sector. lorraine loy, 59, found work in raymondville, missouri, through the program as a u.s. forest service clerk. johnson also found her job through the government program. loy said her job, which she started june 8, was needed to pay living expenses for herself and her 65-year-old disabled husband. the idea of retirement is a "farce," loy said. "i don't ever see myself able to retire." the labor department's gilbert said the program, with a budget of $571 million for 2009 and $120 million in stimulus money received this spring, could pay wages to more than 100,000 seniors over the course of a year. people must have annual income less than 125 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $14,000, to qualify. "the money ... is a really direct stimulus to the economy. our folks ... they are not saving it. they're spending this money on groceries, rent and medicine," said gilbert, who added that the program only served an estimated 1-2 percent of seniors who wanted and needed to work. this demand has spurred similar programs. aarp, a nonprofit organization for people 50 and over, is promoting a national "employer team," and its website features guidance on how senior can prepare a resume, handle tough interviews, and find coveted work-from-home jobs. some private employment specialists, such as "retirementjobs.com," work on ways to keep seniors in the labor force. and the national council on aging also is offering job training and employment assistance. "we are really having to work hard and get creative," nathan said. "but the thing that will get this economy turned around is putting people back to work." --- india and pakistan may talk, but on different terms  london, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india and pakistan may be edging towards reopening talks, but are unlikely to pick up where they left off in a peace process which washington hopes will ease tensions across the region as far as afghanistan. prime minister manmohan singh said on tuesday india was ready to meet pakistan "more than half way", raising expectations of a resumption in talks broken off after last november's attack on mumbai by pakistani-based militants. the first chance to break the ice would come if, as is likely, singh attends a shanghai cooperation organisation summit in russia next week and meets president asif ali zardari on the sidelines. both leaders, who have not met since mumbai, could use this as "an opportunity to remove any misunderstandings and to pave the way for the resumption of the composite dialogue," said wajid shamsul hasan, pakistan's high commissioner to london. washington is pushing for an easing of tensions between india and pakistan so that islamabad can focus on fighting taliban militants on its western border with afghanistan. "we would support more dialogue between the two countries," u.s. state department spokesman ian kelly said on tuesday as under secretary of state william burns began a visit to india. but expecting a breakthrough that might give washington real breathing space in afghanistan and pakistan is a long shot. talking to people from both countries, positions appear to be further apart than they have been since at least 2003 before formal and informal talks led to what some say was a near breakthrough deal on kashmir. while india wants to focus on persuading islamabad to take action against the lashkar-e-taiba militant group it blames for the mumbai attack, pakistan is looking for comprehensive talks, including on the festering kashmir dispute. "(any) talks will be on the subject of pakistan cooperating with india on mumbai," said indian strategic analyst b. raman. "if america thinks we are going to start direct talks ... it's going to be very difficult." pakistan wants all issues back on the table, including un resolutions passed in 1948 giving kashmiris the right to a plebiscite, which had been set aside by former president pervez musharraf in an effort to secure a peace deal with india. "musharraf went beyond his mandate. how can he set aside the un?" said hasan. "he went rather overboard in offering that to india. the indians should have grabbed it, but they didn't." back to scratch according to steve coll, now president of the new america foundation think-tank, india and pakistan came near to a breakthrough on kashmir in 2007 before musharraf ran into political problems which eventually forced him to step down. he said secret talks held in parallel to the formal dialogue produced a roadmap "non-paper" which would give kashmiris some autonomy and, as long as violence declined, each side would gradually withdraw its troops from the region. a joint mechanism, made up of local kashmiri leaders, indians and pakistanis, would be set up to oversee issues that affected populations on both sides of the line of control -- the ceasefire line dividing the disputed region. analysts vary on how close that agreement came to being signed -- coll said it was a road map rather than a done deal. but it looks unlikely to be the starting point for any renewed dialogue between india and pakistan. "the non-paper as such could be there, but it is not something that we could take as a sacrosanct document," said hasan, pakistan's high commissioner. he said pakistan and india should aim to build trust and confidence, including for example by demilitarising the high altitude siachen region on the fringes of kashmir. as trust improved, they could try over a period of years to find a solution to kashmir that left neither country feeling threatened, and that considered the wishes of the kashmiris. "kashmir can't be resolved overnight, so one need not go to war over it," he said. but in contrast to that lengthy trust-building process, india is looking for rapid action from pakistan to crack down on those it blames for the mumbai attacks. it was incensed when a pakistan court last week ordered the release from house arrest of hafiz mohammad saeed, the founder of the lashkar-e-taiba. "the refrain here is that nothing will be achieved by once again resuming dialogue with a government that is both unable and unwilling to act decisively against terrorists operating from its soil," said gurmeet kanwal, head of the centre for land warfare studies in new delhi. "as for siachen, attitudes have hardened. the government will be seen to be buckling under u.s. pressure if it even considers discussing demilitarisation. hence, this too is a non-starter at present," he said. complicating matters are indian doubts about whether zardari's civilian government has enough backing in the country -- including from opposition leader nawaz sharif and the powerful military -- to negotiate effectively. in contrast, after winning re-election last month, singh is in a strong position to manage ties with pakistan and to call the shots if he sees the opportunity for a limited opening. in any case, according to coll, singh's congress party made a point of briefing the opposition bharatiya janata party on its earlier talks with pakistan to maintain cross-party consensus. singh's office said he was "most likely" to attend the summit of the shanghai cooperation organisation -- which groups russia, china and central asian states, and in which india has observer status, but declined further com --- tribal fighters attack south sudan food barges  khartoum, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - armed tribesmen attacked barges carrying un food aid in south sudan, leaving an unknown number of casualties in the latest in an outbreak of ethnic violence, officials said on saturday. members of the jikany nuer tribe attacked 27 boats as they were carrying tonnes of food toward an area controlled by a rival ethnic group down the sobat river on friday afternoon, said the un's world food programme. the remote region has seen a surge in ethnic fighting in recent months, fueled by traditional disputes over cattle and a ready supply of guns after more than two decades of civil war. officials said they were still trying to get detailed information on the attack which happened on the tributary of the while nile close to the border with ethiopia. "we don't have information on how many people were killed or injured. but everyone we have talked to has described it as an attack," said michelle iseminger, the wfp's head of programs in southern sudan. "many of the boats are unaccounted for." iseminger said the barges, carrying sorghum and other food for thousands of people displaced by tribal fighting, set off from the town of nasir in upper nile state, but failed to arrive at their destination of akobo. so far, sixteen of the boats had returned to nasir, and appeared to have been looted, she added. iseminger said the boats and their crews had been contracted to carry the food for the wfp and included an escort of soldiers from the southern sudan people's liberation army. no un officers were on board, she added at least 49 people were killed when fighters from the lou nuer tribe raided the village of torkeij, home to the jikany nuer, in upper nile state in may, in apparent revenge for cattle thefts. sudan's two-decade north-south war, which ended in 2005, left painful scars in the south, where some ethnic groups sided with northern forces. the united nations and south sudan's government fear the violence may disrupt the fragile peace process and preparations for next february's national elections, a pillar of the 2005 peace accord --- climate change forces new migration response  bonn, wed jun 10,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - climate change will force millions of people to leave their homes to flee rising seas and drought over the coming decades, requiring a new plan for mass migration, said a report published on wednesday. funds were needed to help migrants escape natural disasters which will worsen, threatening political stability, said the report published by the un university, care international and columbia university. "environmentally induced migration and displacement has the potential to become an unprecedented phenomenon -- both in terms of scale and scope," the study said. "in coming decades, climate change will motivate or force millions of people to leave their homes in search of viable livelihoods and safety." the report said that the science of climate change was too new to forecast exact projected numbers of migrants, but it cited an international organization for migration estimate of 200 million environmentally induced migrants by 2050. wednesday's study highlighted especially vulnerable regions of the world including: island states such as tuvalu and the maldives, dry areas such as africa's sahel and in mexico, and delta regions in bangladesh, vietnam, and egypt. "in the densely populated ganges, mekong, and nile river deltas, a sea level rise of 1 meter could affect 23.5 million people and reduce the land currently under intensive agriculture by at least 1.5 million hectares," it said. climate scientists say sea levels could rise by at least a meter this century. the world needed to invest to make poor communities and countries more resilient to climate change, the report said. "these funds must be new and additional to existing commitments, such as those for official development assistance," said the report "in search of shelter: mapping the effects of climate change on human migration and displacement." for example, investment in irrigation would make farmers less dependent on rains. education would also help -- for example tilling the soil less leaves a protective mulch, which preserves moisture. migrants from climate disasters may need new rights, the report said. "those displaced by the chronic impacts of climate change will require permanent resettlement. at present, people who move due to gradually worsening living conditions may be categorized as voluntary economic migrants and denied recognition of their special protection needs." un-led talks to extend the kyoto protocol after 2012 are taking place in bonn, and struggling with rich-poor splits on how to share the cost of preparing for and curbing climate ch --- most israelis could live with a nuclear iran: poll  jerusalem, sun jun 14,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - only one in five israeli jews believes a nuclear-armed iran would try to destroy israel and most see life continuing as normal should its arch-foe get the bomb, an opinion poll published on sunday found. the survey, commissioned by a tel aviv university think-tank, appeared to challenge the argument of successive israeli governments that iran must be denied the means to make atomic weapons lest it threaten the existence of the jewish state. asked how a nuclear-armed iran would affect their lives, 80 percent of respondents said they expected no change. eleven percent said they would consider emigrating and 9 percent said they would consider relocating inside israel. twenty-one percent of israelis believe iran "would attack israel with nuclear weapons with the objective of destroying it," the institute for national security studies (inss), which commissioned the poll, said in a statement. the survey had 616 jewish respondents and a margin of error of 3.5 percent, inss research director yehuda ben meir said. israeli arabs who make up some 20 percent of the population -- and are generally less likely to see themselves as targets of the jewish state's enemies -- were not included for budgetary reasons, he said. iran says its uranium enrichment program is for peaceful energy needs only. but its leaders' anti-israel rhetoric and support for islamist guerrillas in lebanon and the palestinian territories have stirred fears of a regional war. israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu was to give a major policy speech on sunday citing iran's reach among the reasons his government is reluctant to cede occupied land for a palestinian state, as envisaged by us-led peace mediators. some israeli officials have said that the islamic republic's ruling clerics may consider destroying israel a goal worth the risk even of a devastating counter-strike: israel is widely assumed to have the middle east's only atomic arsenal. another scenario envisaged by the netanyahu government is of iran using the specter of its nuclear power to undermine israelis' desire to stay in their homeland. like his predecessors, the right-wing netanyahu has hinted israel could attack iran pre-emptively should western diplomacy fail to curb its uranium enrichment. the inss survey found 59 percent of israeli jews would support such strikes, while 41 percent would not back the military option. a separate survey, commissioned by the hebrew university of jerusalem, found 52 percent support for pre-emptive israeli attacks on iran, with 35 percent of respondents opp --- n.korea threatens military action, to enrich uranium  seoul, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - north korea on saturday threatened military action if the united states tried to isolate it after the un security council imposed widened sanctions against the reclusive communist state for a nuclear test in may. the north also vowed to start a programme to enrich uranium and to weaponise plutonium at its nuclear weapons plant, the north's official news agency kcna quoted its foreign ministry spokesman as saying. the sanctions resolution approved on friday banned all weapons exports from north korea and most arms imports into the state. it authorized u.n. member states to inspect north korean sea, air and land cargo, requiring them to seize and destroy any goods transported in violation of the sanctions. a senior south korean official said that north korea may possibly respond to u.n. punishment with "another nuclear test and maybe more missiles." "they will never, never give up their nuclear weapons," said the official who asked not to be named due to the sensitive subject matter. north korea has raised tension in the region in the past months by test-firing missiles, restarting a plant to produce arms-grade plutonium and holding the may 25 nuclear test, which put it closer to having a working nuclear bomb. two senior diplomats negotiating the u.n. resolution told reuters on condition of anonymity the chinese had never really clarified whether they intended to implement the new sanctions resolution. china's u.n. ambassador, zhang yesui, said the resolution showed the "firm opposition" of the international community to north korea's nuclear ambitions, but he urged countries to exercise caution when inspecting north korean cargo. "under no circumstances should there be use or threat of the use of force," zhang said. studies have shown that u.n. sanctions imposed on north korea for missile testing and its only prior nuclear test in 2006 had almost no impact, while its meager trade actually increased due to lax enforcement of those measures. "the success of financial sanctions depends heavily on how far china and the united states are willing to go to pressure north korea," said jeong hyung-gon, a research fellow at the korea institute for international economic policy. the isolated country's $2 billion annual trade with neighboring china, equal to about 10 percent of the north's annual gdp, is its most important economic relationship. beijing has wanted to avoid any measures that could cause the north's economy to collapse and lead to chaos on its border. readying for succession south korea's defense minister said this week the north's saber rattling is to build internal support for leader kim jong-il, 67, as he prepares for succession in asia's only communist dynasty. since kim took over in 1994 and launched his guiding "military first" policy, the north's economy has grown weaker and an estimated 1 million people died in a famine in the late 1990s. north korea will be high on the agenda when south korean president lee myung-bak goes to washington this week for a summit with president barack obama. "one of the most important reasons for north korea continuing its nuclear ambitions is to consolidate the power to stay within the kim jong-il family," lee said in an interview with the wall street journal. u.n. measures the new u.n. measures expand previous provisions to hit north korea's arms trade, which is a key source of foreign currency for the destitute state that produces few other goods it can sell to the outside world. a study by the u.s.-based institute for foreign policy analysis think tank this year estimated pyongyang earns around $1.5 billion a year from missile sales. during more than two weeks of negotiations on the draft resolution, the united states and japan had pushed to authorize forced inspections of suspicious air, land and sea cargo. but diplomats said russia and china had made clear they would veto the resolution unless the inspections were based on consent. the resolution did speak of a "required inspection" if a ship refuses to be inspected. but the ship's flag country could then send the vessel to any port it chooses, where the local authorities would carry out any cargo inspection. --- al qaeda says short of food, arms in afghanistan  istanbul, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the leader of al qaeda in afghanistan has said the militant group was short of food, weapons and other supplies needed to fight against foreign forces in his country, a website linked to al qaeda said. "in afghanistan, we have a severe supply deficit. the main reason for the weakness in operations is insufficient supplies. many mujahideen sit and wait and cannot fight for lack of supplies," mustafa abu al-yazid said on a website used by top al qaeda leaders and other militants to post statements. he called on turks to provide support for al qaeda forces with money and supplies. "if a mujaheed (holy fighter) does not have the money to get weapons, food, drink and the materials for jihad, he cannot fight jihad," al-yazid said in turkish in a statement entitled "advice to the turkish people". violence in afghanistan has surged to its highest levels since the 2001 us invasion toppled the taliban, which had harboured the al qaeda militant network responsible for the sept. 11 attacks on the united states. "fear allah and be ambitious in waging jihad through (donating) goods," al-yazid said. there is little support for al qaeda in muslim turkey. however police carry out sporadic raids on suspected al qaeda cells in the country. al qaeda has carried out attacks in turkey, notably in 2003 when the militants killed more than 60 people in a series of bombings in ista --- bnp won't return until seat, cantt house rows resolved  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)the main opposition bnp will not go to the parliament unless it is offered a 'respectable number' of seats and the issue of party chairperson khaleda zia's cantonment house is resolved, the opposition chief whip has said. "it is an unprecedented move to offer seats of the opposition to the ministers," zainal abdin farroque told reporters on sunday at the parliament's media centre. "we have told the speaker to offer us seats in the front row. many of our mps sit in the back row," farroque said. "but, we have received no good answer from the speaker on the issue." farroque also alleged that the speaker had not resolved the issue of the parliament's daily agenda for opposition chief khaleda's house. her personal doctors and staffers were being stopped entering her house in dhaka cantonment and using her car allotted from the parliament, he also alleged. "under this circumstance, we believe there is no environment (for us) to be back in the parliament." the government is virtually withdrawing police security from the chairperson's political office in gulshan, farroque further alleged. the bnp wants to go to the parliament and also wants to cooperate the government. but, the government party does not want so." the bnp has been absent from parliament demanding more seats in the front row though budget session started on june 4. the speaker allotted one more seat but the party wants at least four front-row seats. b --- al mp's son 'commits suicide'  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com) opu munshi, 25, son of awami league mp and former bgmea chief tipu munshi, apparently committed suicide on thursday midnight, police said on friday. opu's bullet-hit body was recovered from their uttara residence. "on being informed, we went to the former bgmea president's house in sector 5 of uttara," obaidur rahman, uttara police chief, told bdnews24.com "people there showed us to opu's room on the first floor. the door was bolted from within. after we failed to open the door, rab and fire brigade personnel were called in. "the door was eventually broken open at 2am on friday, when opu's blood-stained body was found on the bed. his father's licensed revolver was lying beside." as opu was taken to united hospital in gulshan, the duty doctor there declared him dead after examination. after talking to opu's family, police primarily guessed that it might be a case of suicide. after studying at uttara high school, opu had gone abroad and studied in singapore, usa and canada before returning home only days back. the family said that opu had been mentally deranged and that he had been treated abroad. no case has been filed until friday noon. b --- us urges dhaka not to politicise war crime trials  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)the united states has urged bangladesh "not to politicise" the issue of trial of 1971 war criminals, stressing accountability of the government. "let me say on the question of war crimes that the united states believes strongly in the importance of accountability," the visiting us assistant secretary of state robert o blake told a press conference on sunday. "but in my discussion with the friends here in the government we also urged that this not become a politicised issue," blake, who arrived in dhaka saturday on a two-day visit, told reporters at the american club. elaborating the us position on trying the war criminals, he said, "your country has just had freest and fairest elections in your history, democracy has been strengthened. "it is important that no actions be taken that would be considered by the people of bangladesh as mechanisms to weaken democracy, and undermine the progress that has been made." the assistant secretary of state in charge of south and central asian affairs met foreign minster dipu moni and home minister sahara khatun at their offices in the morning. he will also meet prime minister sheikh hasina on sunday evening. this is blake's first visit to bangladesh since succeeding richard a boucher in may. demands from civil society for the trial of war crimes committed during bangladesh's war of independence from pakistan, have gathered momentum in recent years. the exact number of people killed by the then occupying pakistan army and their collaborators in bangladesh is not known, though most estimates put the figure at around three million. according to some reports, an estimated 200,000 women were raped during the bloody nine-month war. to date, no one has been brought to justice for these crimes. the awami league government, coming to power in january, has finally initiated the process of trying war criminals including the top leaders of bangladesh jaamat-e-islami which opposed the country's independence from pakistan. 'govt should probe bdr deaths' blake also told the press conference that the government should investigate all extra judicial killings including the deaths of border guards who have died in custody since the bloody bdr mutiny in february. "there has been a serious investigation into what occurred in the bangladeshi rifles, but we also discussed the deaths in custody and we talked about the how it is important for the government to investigate those, to carry out a credible investigation and to bring those, who might have been responsible for the deaths in custody, to justice," said blake. "those kinds of actions will help provide the basis for increased cooperation with the bangladesh rifles as they reconstitute themselves after the incident that took place", he said. a visiting european union delegation last week also urged the government to investigate the deaths of at least 20 bdr personnel died in the custody. authorities have reported their deaths as 'suicides', or being caused by 'illnesses' including 'heart attacks'. on regional terrorism blake supported dhaka's move to form a south asian taskforce for combating terrorism in the region, but made it clear that the us had no role to play in the proposed taskforce. he said bangladesh government should work in such way so that both domestic terrorist groups like jmb and transnational terrorists could not harm bangladesh and other countries in the region. blake said the us would assist to protect people from terrorism and safeguard bangladesh's maritime boundary. "we are here to help you to protect your people from those who wish to destabilise your democracy through terrorism and extremism," he said. "i know that there are proposals here in bangladesh to establish a south asian taskforce and that might be one of the mechanisms to increase cooperation between countries not only in the saarc region, but in the other region." "and certainly that is a good possibility, but we don't have any particular role to play in that," said blake. --- carrie prejean fired as miss california  los angeles, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - beauty queen carrie prejean, who ignited a furor at the miss usa pageant by taking a stand against gay marriage, has been fired as miss california for violating her contract, officials said on wednesday. prejean, who nearly lost her miss california crown last month following the same-sex marriage flap and revelations that she had posed topless at age 17, failed to fulfill her duties, a pageant spokesman said. "this was a decision based solely on contract violations including ms. prejean's unwillingness to make appearances on behalf of the miss california usa organization," keith lewis, the pageant's executive director, said in a statement. the pageant said owner donald trump, who had stood by prejean, 22, despite the uproar over her same-sex marriage remarks and racy photos, backed her dismissal. "i told carrie she needed to get back to work and honor her contract with the miss california usa organization and i gave her the opportunity to do so," trump said in the statement. "unfortunately it just doesn't look like it's going to happen and i offered keith my full support in making this decision," he said. "carrie is a beautiful young woman and i wish her well as she pursues other interests." pageant officials said first runner-up tami farrell would assume the crown and take over prejean's duties as miss california. prejean's remarks at the miss usa pageant came after judge and internet gossip perez hilton asked her if every us state should legalize same-sex marriage. she responded that "in my country, in my family, i do believe that marriage should be between a man and a woman, no offense to anybody out there. but that's how i was raised." her views, and the strident reaction to them, came in the midst of heated nationwide debates over same-sex weddings which have recently been legalized in five us states but banned in a california referendum in november. prejean defended her answer while acting as a fill-in host on the "fox and friends" program on the fox network. she said her position was similar to that taken by president barack o --- us envoy talks middle east peace with syria's assad  damascus, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us envoy george mitchell discussed on saturday washington's middle east peace efforts with syrian president bashar al-assad, marking a further thaw of relations between the two countries. "we are well aware of the many difficulties ... yet we share an obligation to create conditions for negotiations to begin promptly and end successfully," mitchell, president barack obama's middle east envoy, said after the meeting. his visit to syria was preceded by talks between us and syrian security officials in damascus on friday that included discussions on iraq, sources in the syrian capital said. a us embassy official said the meeting was between a "military-led" us team and a syrian delegation. the official declined to give further details. relations between syria and the united states improved after obama took office in january and us officials said he was committed to seeking a peace deal between syria and israel as part of an overall middle east peace deal. "syria has an integral role to play in reaching comprehensive peace," mitchell said. the syrian government, however, remains under us sanctions, partly because of what the united states describes as a syrian role in helping insurgents infiltrate iraq. obama renewed the sanctions last month and said syria still posed a threat to us interests --- ju reopens saturday  savar, june 12 (bdnews24.com)jahangirnagar university reopens on saturday after a monthlong summer vacation. most of the students are already back on the campus. the dormitories, however, were kept open through the holidays. the vacation had begun on may 13. bdn --- all the pressure will be on s.africa iraq coach says  johannesburg, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - all the pressure will be on hosts south africa in sunday's opening match of the confederations cup, giving iraq a good chance of an upset win, the underdogs' coach said on friday. "we don't feel any pressure, the question is for who is the real pressure? for me, normally the pressure is on the local team," said bora milutinovic. "that is good for us." serbian-born milutinovic, who holds the record for the most appearances as a coach at world cup finals, only took over iraq in april. "i don't want it to sound like excuses. we are so happy to be here and we've had enough time to get ready for the games. this is an excellent opportunity for us to represent iraq and to give pleasure to the iraqi people," he told reuters. the much-travelled milutinovic, who has previously coached mexico, usa, costa rica, nigeria and china, said iraq had no set target for the tournament. "but we dream. i know it's very difficult, it's a tough competition but you need to believe always." iraq meet south africa in the opening group a match at johannesburg's ellis park of the eight-nation competition, a dress rehearsal for the world cup in a year's time. they qualified for the confederations cup after their upset win in the 2007 asian cup, but failed to make it to the final stages of the asian qualifiers for the world cup --- barvida says 'excess duty' will close down business  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  reconditioned car dealers have urged review of the proposed new duty structure in the budget, terming it "in excess" and saying it threatened to close down businesses. bangladesh reconditioned vehicles importers and dealers association (barvida) said most of the cars on which there are proposals to increase duty are used by the middle class. the budget, rolled out last week, proposed to cut dealer's commissions to 10 percent from 20 percent, increase advanced trade vat to 2.25 percent with a 5 percent regulatory tax. barvida says the new budget also proposes to raise duty to 101.53 percent on cars of 1000 cc and under, up by 23.55 percentage points. duty on 1001-1500 cc suvs and cars would be hiked by 46.46 points to 124.44 percent. it will go up 72.14 points to 208.44 percent for 1501-2000 cc. for 2001 to 2750 cc, duty will be raised 242.88 points to 437.51 percent. for suvs and cars over 2750 cc, it will go up 395.60 points to 590.23 percent. finance minister ama muhith, in his budget speech, said the new duty structure has been proposed to increase revenue collection and to discourage import of luxury cars. barvida president md habibullah however, differed, saying most of the cars on which there are proposals to increase tax are used by the middle class. small cars and microbuses can never be luxury cars, he told a press conference sunday. "cars over three to four thousand cc are luxury ones. the government can impose heavy duty on those". habibullah said that they had some idea of the duty hikes before the budget as the finance minister gave them some hint. "but we had no idea that it would be so appalling and will lead to closure of our business." barvida's secretary general, mahbubul haque chowdhury, elaborated on how prices will increase given the new taxes. an additional cost of tk 2.68 lakh would be levied for a 1300 cc toyota probox; tk 3.93 lakh for a 1500 cc toyota corolla xg; tk 4.12 lakh for a 1500 cc toyota fielder; tk 4.37 lakh for a 1500 cc toyota allion and additional tk 4.41 lakh is levied for a 1500 cc toyota premio, according to the trade body leader. additional levies for suvs would range from tk 21 lakh to tk 55.37 lakh, he added. for up to 1800 cc microbuses, it proposed to increase duty from 23.55 percent to 101.53 percent and from 72.14 to 208.44 percent for those over 1800 cc. the new duty structure would cost an additional tk 2.10 lakh for a 1800 cc toyota dx/gl microbus; tk 7.96 lakh for a 2000 cc toyota noah/voxy microbus and tk 1.31 lakh for a 2000 cc toyota hi ace microbus, said the barvida leader. chowdhury suggested a simplified duty structure. he proposed 30 percent duty for up to 1500 cc, 45 percent from 1501 to 2000 cc, 60 percent from 2001 to 2500 cc, 100 percent from 2501 to 3000 cc and 250 percent for over 3001 cc. the trade body also called for a 20 percent dealer's commission deducted as before, imposing zero avt on microbuses and daily use cars. bdnew --- more clashes erupt after disputed iran election  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranian police again clashed on sunday with demonstrators protesting in tehran against the re-election of hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad. supporters of defeated moderate mirhossein mousavi, who has dismissed ahmadinejad's victory in friday's election as a "dangerous charade," gathered in the city center, chanted his name and threw stones at police, a reuters witness said. police on motorcycles drove through the crowd to disperse the protesters. at least one person, a woman, was injured. police briefly detained journalists filming the violence. the unrest that has rocked tehran and several other cities since official results were declared on saturday is the sharpest expression of discontent against iran's leadership for years. police have detained more than 100 reformers, including the brother of former president mohammad khatami, a leading reformer said on sunday. a police official confirmed some detentions. ahmadinejad was planning celebrations in the capital later on sunday. his unexpectedly overwhelming victory and its violent aftermath raised fresh questions about how iran will respond to u.s. president barack obama's diplomatic overtures. analysts said the election result would disappoint western powers trying to convince the world's fifth biggest oil exporter to halt nuclear activities they suspect are aimed at making bombs. obama had urged iran's leadership "to unclench its fist." french concern french foreign minister bernard kouchner voiced concern about events in iran after the election, saying "brutal" repression of opponents was closing the door to dialogue. "brutality and never-ending military development will not bring any solutions," kouchner said after meeting us special envoy to the middle east george mitchell in paris. mohammad ali abtahi, who served as a vice president under khatami, told reuters the former president's brother mohammad reza khatami was one of more than 100 members of iran's biggest reformist party mosharekat who were held on saturday. "there are reports a political party was involved in yesterday's incidents. some of them have been arrested," iran's deputy police chief ahmed reza radan was quoted by the fars news agency as saying. he said khatami was not among 10 people arrested, but did not say if he had been summoned and released. mousavi's wife, zahra rahnavard, denied reports that her husband himself had been detained or put under house arrest. "he is following the issue of the election. he says he is with the people and beside them," rahnavard told reuters. "the iranian people voted to change ahmadinejad, but this vote became a vote to solidify ahmadinejad. people are tired of dictatorship," said rahnavard, who took a high-profile public role in her husband's election campaign, which drew tens of thousands of supporters onto the streets of tehran. "people are tired of not having freedom of expression, of high inflation, and adventurism in foreign relations. that is why they wanted to change ahmadinejad," she said. an aide to rahnavard said she had tried to speak at tehran university on sunday, but had been prevented. mousavi has rejected ahmadinejad's victory, saying it had been achieved by vote-rigging that would "jeopardize the pillars of the islamic republic and will establish tyranny." interior ministry officials have rejected accusations of fraud and supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei, iran's top authority, has called on iranians to back their president. power struggle the anti-ahmadinejad camp was "taken by surprise and is scrambling for a plan," according to trita parsi, director of the washington-based national iranian american council. "increasingly, given their failure to get khamenei to intervene, their only option seems to be to directly challenge -- or threaten to challenge -- the supreme leader," he wrote. a senior western diplomat in tehran said he believed the street unrest would soon end. "it will not be allowed to spread. they will apply all their force to subdue it," he said. but while ahmadinejad had won, his re-election battle had exposed a polarizing power struggle between radicals and moderate conservatives which in the long term could affect the islamic republic's stability, the diplomat said. "there is turbulence in the whole system," he added. protests also broke out on saturday in the cities of tabriz, orumieh, hamedan and rasht, where crowds chanted for mousavi. in isfahan, police made arrests after students at sanati university set equipment and furniture on fire, a witness said. in tehran, municipality spokesman mohammad hadi ayazi said protesters had torched seven buses on saturday, destroyed 60 rubbish bins and set several banks on fire. ahmadinejad, in a televised address to the nation, said the election had been "free and healthy." us secretary of state hillary clinton said the united states was monitoring the outcome of the election closely and hoped the result reflected the will of the iranian people. a senior state department official insisted obama's decision to engage iran was not based on any particular electoral outcome and the path ahead would be hard no matter who --- museum asks: what's the greatest science invention?  london wed jun 10,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - the science museum in london is displaying models of what it feels are the 10 greatest scientific inventions in human history to mark its centenary on june 22. it chose the steam engine, the x-ray machine, the electric telegraph, the dna double helix, stephenson's rocket train, the apollo 10 rocket capsule, the model t ford car and the pilot ace computer among its best objects. the v2 german rocket engine and penicillin made up the top 10. "we have selected these 10 objects because they are hugely significant in world history and (because of) the impact they had on how we live our lives today," said the museum's chief curator tim boon. the public will be asked to vote for their favorites during the summer. trevor baylis, inventor of the wind-up radio, said he would vote for the v2 rocket engine. "it's one of the greatest achievements of our time because it led to space exploration, and then satellite development, which then led to mobile phones and the astounding communication services we enjoy today," he said. nitin sawhney, a british musician, backs penicillin. "as an asthmatic recovering from a debilitating bout of pneumonia, i am painfully aware of how important a role penicillin has played in curing my lung infection," he said. members of the public can cast their vote by going to the museum in south kensington or visiting its website: www.sciencemuseum.or --- no systematic violence in zimbabwe: tsvangirai  harare, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - prime minister morgan tsvangirai said there was no signs of systematic intimidation and violence in zimbabwe, remarks that may reassure western donors who have called for improved human rights in the country. "there is no evidence that there is a general campaign of intimidation and violence in the country," he told al jazeera television in an interview which will be broadcast friday. a new unity government was formed by president robert mugabe and tsvangirai in february but their power-sharing deal has not been fully implemented. tsvangirai's movement for democratic change (mdc) has long accused mugabe's zanu-pf of carrying out violence to further its political aims, charges it denies. arrests of mdc activists have strained the new government. western donors have said aid will only flow when a democracy is created and economic reforms are implemented. tsvangirai's comments may point to an easing of political tensions in the new administration --- blast in pakistan market kills 8, us drone strikes  dera ismail khan, pakistan, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a bomb blast in a market killed eight people in northwest pakistan on sunday, the latest in a wave of attacks since the army launched an offensive against taliban militants. nuclear-armed pakistan is struggling to push back a growing taliban insurgency and security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting against militants in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad. the militants have responded with a string of bombs in towns and cities. separately on sunday, a suspected us drone aircraft fired a missile in the south waziristan region, a stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud, killing three militants travelling in a vehicle, a witness and officials said. the bomb in a market in the northwestern town of dera ismail khan killed eight people and wounded 25, a government official said. "the initial probe suggests that the device was planted in a push-cart parked in the middle of the market," syed mohsin shah, the top government official in the city, told reuters. rising violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states, which needs its muslim ally's help to defeat al qaeda and stabilise neighbouring afghanistan. on thursday, the u.s. house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for five years to help combat extremism through development. pakistan is now the biggest recipient of u.s. aid. [[id:nn11521608] the united states, alarmed by deteriorating security in afghanistan, has been using drone aircraft to attack taliban and al qaeda fighters in northwestern pakistani militant strongholds. though a staunch us ally, pakistan objects to the u.s. missile strikes saying they violate its sovereignty and undermine efforts to deal with militancy because they inflame public anger and bolster militant support. three bodies the drone strike on sunday, the first since may 16, was in laddah, in south waziristan, about 60 km (40 miles) north of the region's main town of wana. "the missile destroyed the vehicle and i saw three bodies lying next to it," ethnic pashtun tribal leader habibullah mehsud told reuters by telephone from the region on the afghan border. a government official in the region confirmed the attack, saying drones had been flying over south waziristan since early morning. the identity of the dead militants was not known. pakistani warplanes struck another mehsud stronghold in south waziristan on saturday in retaliation for the killing of an anti-taliban cleric in a suicide bomb attack in the city of lahore the previous day. us officials said last week pakistan looked set to mount a significant offensive against mehsud's forces in south waziristan. [id:nn12117633] in the past week, the military has stepped up attacks in several parts of the northwest in what analysts see as a bid to keep the militants distracted and to "soften up" their positions. residents in the bajaur region on the afghan border to the northeast of waziristan said aircraft bombed militants in several villages on sunday but there were no reports casualties. security forces also fired artillery in the same area late on saturday, killing nine taliban fighters, intelligence officials and residents said. the military says about 1,300 militants have been killed in swat and adjoining areas since the army swung into action in late april. about 105 soldiers have been killed. independent casualty estimates are not available. the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest has displaced about 2.5 million people and aid officials have appealed to donors to step up their help. the public largely backs the government in its war on the taliban but support could evaporate if civilians are seen to suffer un --- us secret operations leader takes afghan command  kabul, mon jun 15, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a veteran commander of top-secret special operations took charge of the nearly 90,000 us and nato troops in afghanistan on monday, promising to shield afghans from civilian casualties that have cost western troops support. "the afghan people are at the centre of our mission. in reality, they are the mission. we must protect them from violence, whatever its nature," us general stanley mcchrystal said at a ceremony on the lawn of nato's kabul headquarters. he was presented with a flag of the nato-led international security assistance force by a german army general representing the alliance. a uniformed us military band played the afghan and us national anthems beneath flags of nato countries, flying at half staff in honour of fallen troops. repeating a theme that has become a mantra of us counter-insurgency strategy, mcchrystal said the foreign troops needed to earn the "support and trust of the afghan people". "if we gain that trust we cannot lose. if we lose that trust we cannot win," he said. he arrived in afghanistan on sunday after winning backing from european allies, a month after being named by president barack obama to succeed general david mckiernan, abruptly removed from command of a war us officials said was not being won. on arrival, mcchrystal met afghan president hamid karzai, who pressed him to avoid civilian casualties, karzai's office said. mcchrystal takes command midway through a massive build-up of u.s. forces which will see their numbers more than double from 32,000 at the end of 2008 to 68,000 by the end of this year. he also commands about 30,000 troops from other nato allies. washington considers taliban-led insurgencies in afghanistan and neighbouring pakistan to be its main security threat, and is diverting tens of thousands of troops to afghanistan from iraq. us forces say the number of insurgent attacks in afghanistan is at its highest since the militants were driven out of power in retaliation for shielding osama bin laden after the sept. 11 attacks on the united states nearly eight years ago. fighting is expected to intensify over the next months as more troops deploy ahead of an august presidential election. civilian deaths cause anger civilian deaths caused by foreign troops hunting insurgents have angered many afghans and have been the main source of friction between karzai's government and the united states. the issue sparked anti-american demonstrations after a us air strike last month which the afghan government says killed 140 civilians, mostly children. washington acknowledges mistakes in that strike and says 20-35 civilians died along with about 60 people it believes were fighters. mcchrystal's background has raised some eyebrows: for most of the last six years he led a cadre of super-secret us special forces raiders in both iraq and afghanistan, tasked with hunting, capturing and assassinating insurgent leaders. he has also held other senior posts, most recently as director of the joint staff in washington. but much of his career is classified, and his nato biography leaves out many details. in an interview with the wall street journal this month he said he had learned that targeted killings, like those he has carried out for much of his recent career, were not enough to defeat an insurgency. "since 9/11, i have watched as america tried to first put out this fire with a hammer, and it doesn't work," he said. "decapitation strategies don't work." "you're going to have to convince people, not kill t --- bnp keen to join budget session  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)the main opposition bnp will join the ongoing budget session if only the government was a little more accommodative and considered affording it one more seat in the front row in parliament, senior party leader moudud ahmed has said. "as an opposition party, we would very much like to take part actively in the budget session in parliament," moudud, a lawyer, told reporters on wednesday at his motijheel chamber. bnp has been staying out of parliament since it resumed its second session on june 4. asked if bnp will attend the budget session on thursday, or when they should be holding their parliamentary party meeting, moudud said, "we do want to go to parliament and attend the budget session." "wait a little. we still have a day before the budget session. you'll get to know about the parliamentary party meeting." b --- ahmadinejad's economic record may sway iran vote  tehran, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - if iranian voters deny president mahmoud ahmadinejad re-election on friday, it may be more a verdict on his economic performance than on his fierce rhetoric against the united states and israel, his defence of iran's nuclear policy or his persistent questioning of the holocaust. ahmadinejad, 53, grabbed 62 percent of the vote in the 2005 presidential poll, upsetting widespread predictions of victory for the seasoned former president akbar hashemi rafsanjani. he swept to power with the backing of iran's devout poor, especially those in rural areas, who felt neglected by past governments and liked his promise to put oil wealth on the table of every family in a nation of over 70 million people. ahmadinejad has distributed loans, money and other help for local needs on his frequent provincial tours, but critics say his free-spending policies have fuelled inflation and squandered windfall petrodollars without reducing unemployment. since he took power, prices of food, fuel and other basics have soared, hitting more than 15 million iranian families who live on less than $600 a month, according to official figures. ahmadinejad, who blames inflation on a global surge in food and fuel prices that peaked last year, has pursued unorthodox economic policies such as trying to curb prices while setting interest rates well below inflation, now less than 18 percent. born a blacksmith's son in the farming village of aradan, 100 km (62 miles) southeast of tehran, his family moved to the capital in his early childhood. he studied engineering and has alternated between teaching and administrative posts. ahmadinejad, a small man who wears open-necked shirts and windbreakers, plays on his modest origins and lifestyle. after the 1979 revolution, he joined the elite revolutionary guard. his rise to power appeared to signal a return to the stern revolutionary roots of the islamic republic's founder, ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, after hardliners snuffed out the reformist challenge when mohammad khatami was president from 1997 to 2005. ahmadinejad often denounces western "hegemony" as well as the u.n. and u.s. sanctions that have raised trade costs and deterred western investment in iran's oil and gas sector. during his term, the u.n. security council has imposed three sets of sanctions on iran over its nuclear programme, which the west suspects has military aims, not merely civilian ones as tehran insists. ahmadinejad's moderate rivals say his fiery anti-western talk has helped isolate iran diplomatically. the incumbent is basking in support from iran's supreme leader, ayatollah ali khamenei, who has called on iranians to vote for an anti-western candidate. however, this apparent endorsement could provoke a backlash from voters who stayed at home in 2005 but might relish a chance to say 'no' to khamenei. the supreme leader ultimately calls the shots in iran, where the president can only influence policy, not decide it. it would be rash to assume that iran's nuclear policy or its decision on how to respond to diplomatic overtures by u.s. president barack obama will change, even if a moderate candidate defeats ahmadinejad in june, analysts say. his challengers are mirhossein mousavi, prime minister during the 1980-88 war with iraq, former parliament speaker mehdi karoubi and former revolutionary guard commander mohsen rezaie. all three advocate a less abrasive foreign policy. presidents can run for two consecutive four-year terms before they must step down. they can run again at a later date. --- argentina slump, brazil and chile steam ahead  buenos aires, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - argentina's world cup fear of heights resurfaced on wednesday when they lost 2-0 in ecuador while brazil and chile both moved closer to a trip to south africa with home wins. south american group leaders brazil came from behind to beat paraguay 2-1 in a top-of-the-table clash while surprise package chile thumped a negative bolivia 4-0. argentina, who have 22 points from 14 games, stayed in the top four positions which guarantee a place in south africa but are only two points clear of fifth-placed ecuador after their defeat at altitude in quito. the team which finishes fifth in the 10-team group must play off over two legs against a team from concacaf. uruguay, who have 18 points, and venezuela, who have 17, stayed in contention after their 2-2 draw in puerto ordaz while colombia, also on 17, kept their hopes alive with a 1-0 win over peru. argentina paid for missing several first-half chances before ecuador's walter ayovi and pablo palacios scored in the last 20 minutes in rainy quito at 2,800 metres above sea level. diego maradona's men were thumped 6-1 by bolivia in their last away fixture at altitude in la paz two months ago. lionel messi missed a glaring chance in the 10th minute before carlos tevez had his penalty saved by argentine-born ecuador goalkeeper marcelo elizaga. "the didn't do anything in the first half," maradona told reporters. "in the second half, they got a couple of rebounds and they scored two goals. philosophical bielsa chile were faced by five defenders and three defensive midfielders against bolivia in santiago but finally broke through with a jean beausejour header just before halftime. two goals from alexis sanchez and one from marco estrada in the second half completed their third win in four qualifiers. chile's enigmatic argentine coach marcelo bielsa was philosophical about his team's chances of a first world cup appearance since 1998. "like the public, we have dreams and clear objectives in this sense," he said. "but football is so full of the unexpected that it's never a good idea to pre-announce something which has still not happened." brazil coach dunga was more direct in his assessment of the win over paraguay in recife. "we need three more points to be sure (of qualifying)," he said. salvador cabanas gave paraguay a shock first-half lead with a deflect free kick. however, robinho volleyed the equaliser four minutes before halftime before a fortuitous nilmar goal in the 50th minute gave the hosts their third straight win. paraguay, who have taken one point from their last four games, dropped to third with 24 points. brazil have 27, one more than chile. uruguay appeared set for a win in venezuela when diego forlan put them 2-1 ahead in the 73rd minute only for jose manuel rey's free kick to earn the hosts a point two minutes later. radamel falcao garcia scored the only goal in medellin as colombia handed peru their eighth straight defeat --- bnp calls standing committee meeting  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)bnp chairperson khaleda zia has called a meeting of the party's standing committee at her gulshan office for saturday night. standing committee members said the meeting might decide on joining the parliament to raise important issues such as the fallout from india's controversial tipaimukh dam project, and the "deteriorating law and order situation" in bangladesh. bnp office secretary rizvi ahmed told bdnews24.com the meeting is expected to begin at 8pm with khaleda zia in the chair. the main opposition party bnp have been boycotting parliament, including the budget session, over an ongoing dispute on seating in the house. the last meeting of the standing committee, bnp's highest policy-making body, held on may 18, decided to dissolve 71 out of 75 district-level units to convene them anew as part of a 'grassroots-up' shake-up after the party's disastrous showing in the december general elections. b --- russia urges us to drop missile shield to help ties  moscow, thu jun 11,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia said on thursday that full dialogue with the united states on missile threats could only begin if washington dropped its plans to deploy a missile defense system in europe. "only a rejection by the united states of plans to create a ... missile defense system in europe could lay the groundwork for our fully fledged dialogue on questions of cooperation in reacting to potential missile risks," russian foreign ministry spokesman andrei nesterenko told reporters. he said that moscow viewed the us missile plans as a way to counter russia's strategic forces, but he added that moscow hoped to find a way to reach a compromise with washington. us officials say the planned deployment of interceptor missiles and a radar system in eastern europe is aimed at preventing potential attacks from countries like iran. russia has tied washington's plans for missile defense to talks on reducing cold war arsenals of nuclear wea --- sahara vows to bring gulshan ave home grabbers 'to book'  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)sahara khatun, the home minister, has 'promised to bring to book' those behind the assault on an octogenarian couple on the capital's gulshan avenue during a night time bid last week to dislodge them from their home of nearly 40 years. the minister visited the couple for an hour and a quarter on saturday night. "this is a democratic government; we won't allow such actions," she told reporters emerging from the house. over a dozen intruders, claiming they were from private tv station atn bangla, broke into the home of retired civil servant abdul qaiyum at around 1:30am on wednesday and tried to forcibly evict his family from their decades-old home. sahara said the elderly couple were still visibly shaken on saturday night. "we are on the side of truth," the minister added. "the home minister has assured us that the guilty will be brought to justice," said a family member. the armed intruders, planting a signboard bearing the tv station's name, overpowered the house guards on the night, but were chased down by neighbours' security men. eleven of them were arrested, taken to court and sent to jail on wednesday. saiful bari, a spokesperson for atn bangla, said on the day that the company's chairman mahfuzur rahman had purchased the property, at 69 gulshan avenue, from a man named abdur rashid khan in march. "but no one from atn bangla tried to illegally grab the house; those who did so are not associated with atn bangla," bari told bdnews24.com. he also said the signboard seized by police, with atn bangla's name, was not theirs. according to a document shown by bari, mahfuzur rahman bought the 21-katha plot for tk 2.25 crore. the current market price for just one katha of land in upscale gulshan, however, costs nearly tk 2 crore. a rajuk official told bdnews24.com on thursday that atn bangla's claims of owning the land at 69 gulshan avenue have no legal basis. mostafa jamil khan, assistant director of city development authority rajuk, said the channel's chairman had bought the 21-katha plot from a fake owner. abdur rashid khan did not own the plot, he said. "he was hanging around in the office with fake lease papers. he came to us. but after scrutinising the papers it was found that his papers were false," said the rajuk official. bd --- real seek more signings after kaka deal-valdano  madrid, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - real madrid are in talks to buy more players after sealing the transfer of brazil forward kaka from ac milan, sporting director jorge valdano said on tuesday. "we have needs and we will try to satisfy them with more signings which must make us better," valdano said in comments published on the club's website (www.realmadrid.com). "but we are beholden to the market and things are not as fluid as we would like," he added after kaka became the prmera liga club's first signing under new president florentino perez. "we will be working on purchases and sales at the same time and see then what squad we are left with, certainly a better one than last season which is the main aim," said valdano --- saarc must build peace: pm  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)prime minister sheikh hasina has said saarc must work to build peace in the region and to fulfill the hopes of the south asian people. "concerted effort is needed to make saarc more effective," the prime minister said on sunday while opening a two-day seminar on the south asian association for regional cooperation. the seminar on current goods-manufacturing practices in the pharmaceutical sector, radiation processing, insect-resistant crop variety for sustainable agriculture began at hotel sheraton in the city. hasina said the regional grouping failed to fulfill people's expectations. "we need to form solidarity among the member countries so that people enjoy its success." "bangladesh is always determined to play a positive role in forming a stable and prosperous region in south asia," the prime minister said. "we hope that saarc will work as an effective agency in building peace in south asia." hasina said the south asia was enjoying democracy. she stressed the need for the highest use of science and technology for the socio-economic development. the prime minister also emphasised development in industry and agriculture sectors and pointed out the potentials of the atomic energy research and its positive use. "atomic energy plays active role in power generation, food preservation and processing, ecological balance and other sectors." "we should be sincere in generating atomic power in the backdrop of global power crisis," hasina said. foreign minister dipu moni and state minister for ict yafes osman, among others, also spoke at the seminar. b --- parcel bomb defused at beirut government building  beirut, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a small bomb containing 200 grams (7 ounces) of explosives sent to beirut's general security headquarters was defused on friday after failing to explode because of a technical glitch, security sources said. bombs are rarely sent to government buildings although several explosive devices are defused or explode every week in lebanon. tensions in lebanon have dissipated after a qatari-mediated deal in may last year dragged the country back from the brink of civil war. before that lebanon had suffered bouts of political killings, bombings and sectarian conflict since the 2005 assassination of former prime minister rafik al-hariri. on sunday the us-backed coalition, led by politician saad al-hariri, won a parliamentary election against an alliance that includes iranian-backed hezbollah. us special middle east envoy george mitchell is in lebanon meeting with various officials before visiting s --- bad text messaging, e-mailing manners can be costly  new york, thu jun 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a political coup in new york's statehouse can be traced back to an incident in which a top lawmaker so enraged a wealthy backer by peering at e-mails on his blackberry that his patron engineered his ouster. one of the newer forms of poor office etiquette -- paying more attention to a hand-held device than to a conversation or business meeting -- happens so frequently that businesses are complaining it upsets workplaces, wastes time and costs money. "it happens all the time, and it's definitely getting worse," said jane wesman, a public relations executive and author of "dive right in -- the sharks won't bite." "it's become an addiction," she said. a third of more than 5,000 respondents said they often check their e-mails during meetings, according to a march poll by yahoo! hotjobs, an online jobs board. such habits have their price, said tom musbach, senior managing editor of yahoo! hotjobs. "things like blackberries fragment our attention span, and that can lead to lost productivity and wasted dollars because people aren't focused on their work, absolutely," he said. reprimanded for bad manners in other yahoo! hotjobs research, nearly a fifth of respondents said they had been reprimanded for showing bad manners with a wireless device. yet even those who rail against such behavior admit to their own weakness. "i catch myself driving in the car with my husband. he's talking to me and i'm downloading my e-mails," said wesman. "you can't help yourself. there's this need to know what's going on." but the constant pursuit of an e-mail fix may be costly. research shows such multi-tasking can take more time and result in more errors than does focusing on a single task at a time. "we know that if you have a person attending to different things at the same time, they're not going to retain as much information as they would if they attended to that one thing," said nathan bowling, an expert in workplace psychology at wright state university in dayton, ohio. "if you're attending to multiple things at the same time, you often times don't learn anything," he said. then there's the risk of making someone really mad. in the new york state political coup, billionaire businessman tom golisano said he grew angry after meeting this spring with state democratic majority leader malcolm smith, who paid more attention to his blackberry than to issues at hand. "i thought that was very rude," golisano told statehouse reporters. golisano is known for hefty campaign contributions and for funding his own unsuccessful bids for governor. irked by smith's behavior, golisano reportedly approached other legislators, who this week voted out the democratic leadership and voted in the republicans. "one should not play with one's blackberry (or anything else) when billionaires who have helped elect you have traveled to your office to talk to you," henry stern, former head of new york city's parks department, wrote on a yonkers tribune blog. counter-productive work behavior people who text message when they should be doing something else are engaging in what bowling called counter-productive work behavior, which also includes harassment, showing up late or playing endlessly on the internet. "technology allows us to do counter-productive things that we weren't able to do 10, 20 or even five years ago," he said. business etiquette coach barbara pachter said there is a "learning curve" to new technology such as blackberries. "we're still at that point where we're being rude," she said, adding that people's behavior is likely to improve in the next year or two. "we're just not there  --- two blasts in different parts of pakistan: police  lahore, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/ reuters) - blasts went off in two different places in pakistan at about the same time on friday but there was no immediate word on casualties, police said. one blast went off at an islamic school run by a prominent anti-taliban cleric in the city of lahore. another went off near a mosque in the northwestern town of nowshera, police  --- england suffer new low against south africa  nottingham, england, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - england recorded their lowest total in a twenty20 international as south africa bowled them out for just 111 before easing to a seven-wicket win in the world cup second round match on thursday. although england did well to contain south africa in reply, ultimately they were never able to defend their paltry score as the proteas reached 114 for three with 10 balls to spare. jacques kallis batted patiently for his 57 not out. england, who crashed to an embarrassing loss to the netherlands in the tournament opener on friday before thrashing pakistan, again showed inconsistency in their 19th twenty20 match. "a good total on that wicket was more like 150," england captain paul collingwood told reporters. "it was a pretty good deck, we lost early wickets in the first six overs and it put us behind the eight ball. they really proved why they are the favourites in the competition." they set the standards with the fielding and the bowling. they put us under a lot of pressure to rebuild the innings. 111 was never really going to be enough. paul collingwood's team were on only 47 for three at the halfway stage and did not register 100 until the 18th over. earlier, on the same ground, new zealand were 94 for two after ten overs against ireland. left-arm seam bowler wayne parnell, 19, claimed three for 14 from his 3.5 overs and bowled tail-enders stuart broad and james anderson with the last two balls of england's innings. owais shah top-scored with 38 from 33 balls, but his innings lacked intensity. he scored almost half his runs in one over. shah took 15 from the 12th over bowled by roelof van der merwe, including a six over long off. but just as england looked to increase their run rate they slumped from 78 for three to 92 for eight. graeme smith dropped broad in the 20th over and allowed a boundary in the process but this was a rare lapse by an efficient and energetic south africa. "we lost the toss but wanted to put in an intense performance with the ball and the bowlers led the way, the fielders were great and we just created a lot of pressure on england and squeezed them," smith said. "it was clinically finished off by jacques and the boys." fittingly, south africa seamer albie morkel earlier bowled the first maiden (which included a wicket) of the tournament --- budget '10: execution is key  by mamun rashid if he had been alive, tajuddin ahmed, bangladesh's first prime minister, would have been most happy today to see so much public debate on the national budget and, more importantly, what could be called a 'conscientious budget' being drafted in line with major national issues. credit goes to our rising economic journalism, retired but `eager to speak' ex-bureaucrats, think tanksand thanks to a very articulate finance minister, the nation was almost familiar with this budget even before it was placed in parliament. we knew the outlay was going to be around bdt 114,000 crores, with revenue earnings of around bdt 80,000 crores and a bdt 34,000 deficit. we also knew the annual development programme would be about bdt 30,500 crores. we also came to know the revised budget for the outgoing fiscal would be bdt 94,000 crores with adp being revised downward from bdt 25,600 crores to bdt 23,000 crores. we knew prices of luxury items, such as cars and air conditioners would go up. we knew the government would encourage large companies to float shares in the capital market and do everything to revitalise agriculture and rural bangladesh. so, what was new on thursday? public private partnership (ppp) or 'digital bangladesh'? not really. we also knew the new government was going to refocus on ppp to drive infrastructure development. on thursday, we came to know the government has allocated bdt 2100 crores for this. a 'digital bangladesh' was an election pledge of the new government. information is power, and access to information can significantly reduce corruption while an integrated information network can ensure efficiency and transparency in the whole system. the budget speech has disclosed government eagerness to integrate all upazilas through a wide area network and subsequently deliver technology to the doorstep of the rural people. acceptance of undisclosed money 'without any question' was also on the cards. this time the facility has been given from 1 july 2009 to 30 june 2012 with a 10 percent tax and provided it is invested in the stock market, physical infrastructure or certain new industries and bmre of units of the same industries. we needed power, bridges, development of smes. the fm has kept adequate allocations and policy support to augment those sectors. he has demonstrated a clear understanding of `where the shoe pinches' in bangladesh. eight percent gdp growth has been targeted by 2013 and 10 percent by 2017 which would be sustained until 2021. we also came to know of a target of $28 billion in fdi by 2013-14. the budget deficit is estimated to be within 5 percent of gdp of which 2 percent will be financed from external sources and the remaining 3 percent will be financed from domestic sources. in 2009, 500 mw of additional power will be generated through 4 projects under the public sector and 440 mw will be added from 11 projects under the private sector. the bidding process for the construction of a 450 mw bibiyana power plant is underway. by 2013, some 2,810 mw of power will be produced through 13 projects under the public sector and another 1,350 mw, under 3 projects of the private sector including bibiyana. the stimulus package is also to be expanded, with a provision of bdt 5,000 crore in the proposed budget. major proposals related to tax include: lower the age bar from 70 years to 65 years to help reduce the personal income tax burden on senior bangladeshi citizens. there is a proposal to reduce the corporate tax rate for mobile phone operators to 35 percent subject to the condition that they are listed in the stock exchange as a publicly traded company and at least 10 percent share of the company's paid up capital is transferred. the budget proposes accepting the investment incurred for the purchase of flat or construction of house without any question by paying a tax at a specific rate according to the measurement of the flat/house. imposition of tax on vehicle at a specified rate on the basis of engine capacity (cc) and imposition of duty on luxury import vehicles were other measures, along with increase of duty from 20 percent to 45 percent on shoes, tiles, sanitary wire, biscuits, suitcases, mosquito coil, jewellery. there is also proposal to include withdrawal of vat exemption facility enjoyed by travel agents, indenting firms, manpower exporters, manufacturers of utensils, sanitary ware and other kitchenware made of aluminium and enamel, homeopathic, ayurvedic, unani and herbal medicine and plastic furniture. zero rate tax rates will continue for major food items and fertilisers. a 5 percent regulatory duty against tariff lines with 25 percent customs duty on luxury items is proposed. a 25 percent customs duty on mobile phone sets on an ad valorem basis instead of existing specific duty of tk. 300/set applied irrespective of quality and waive all existing vat, supplementary duty and ait is included. on the clean energy front is exemption of solar panel from all vat at stages of import, domestic production and supply. the budget looks good but ambitious. an almost 33 percent increase on the adp and 21 percent increase on the revenue budget. very much in line with the election manifesto. but the question remains can the present political regime, local government and development administration drive this large expenditure budget to closure? if yes, where will the drive come from? what is needed is lots of energy and synergy too. we have to speak the same language, sing the same song. is it possible? at harvard we were referred to a book called execution: the discipline of getting things done. after many long years, the title comes to mind again. mamun rashid is managing director, citibank na banglad --- real's ronaldo bid prompts fury among twittering classes  madrid, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - real madrid's bid of 80 million pounds ($132 million) for cristiano ronaldo generated some sharp criticism in spanish internet posts on thursday, with many commentators slamming the club for spending outrageous sums in the middle of a severe recession. coming just days after real president florentino perez paid around 67 million euros ($94.02 million) for brazilian kaka, the move for ronaldo prompted widespread anger in a country with an unemployment rate of 18.1 percent, the highest in the european union. "in spain there are four million jobless. that's four million family dramas," juancarlosm wrote on the website of daily el mundo. "spending this shameful amount of money is immoral. i am embarassed to be a madrid fan." pepe, writing on the el pais site, said he could not fathom how a nation with a jobless rate approaching 20 percent could permit the most expensive transfer the game has ever seen. "we are living in a banana republic," he wrote. "when i go abroad i say that i am italian because i am embarassed to be from this country." there was some support for construction magnate perez, who twice broke the transfer record in bringing "galacticos" zinedine zidane and figo to the bernabeu in his previous stint as president in 2000-2006. "very expensive? excessive? of course, obviously, but the best players are priceless," raphael wrote on el pais. "madrid is a prisoner of its history. either it's one of the greats or it's not madrid. "what florentino is doing seems positive to me," leonidas iii wrote on el mundo. "or have all you others done more in your life than he has? do you think he doesn't know what he's doing?" emicr7 wrote on el mundo that real had to buy players like kaka and ronaldo if they wanted to generate the most revenue. "florentino is unique in this and will turn madrid into a club with income of more than 600 million euros." but the overwhelming majority of posts were critical. "from an (as of today) ex-soccer fan it seems to me both immoral and an insult to people's intelligence," frankie wrote on el mundo. "where have soccer's sporting values gone? far, far away. --- mousavi camp waging velvet revolution: iran guards  tehran, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a senior revolutionary guard accused president mahmoud ahmadinejad's pro-reform opponents on wednesday of waging a "velvet revolution" in iran, at the climax of a bitter presidential election campaign. the comments were a further escalation in a war of words after ahmadinejad, facing a strong challenge from former prime minister mirhossein mousavi, accused his rivals of using hitler-style smear tactics and said they could face jail. the campaign has shown up divisions among leading figures in the islamic republic, between backers of the hardline incumbent and more moderate advocates of detente with the west, whose supporters have spilled on to the streets for boisterous rallies. "the presence of supporters of mirhossein mousavi on the streets are part of the velvet revolution," said yadollah javani, head of the guards' political office, using a term used to describe the 1989 non-violent revolution in czechoslovakia. "any kind of velvet revolution will not be successful in iran," he said in comments published on the guards' website. mousavi's supporters, dressed in his green campaign color, have taken to the streets of tehran for nightly rallies, waving flags and banners and shouting anti-ahmadinejad slogans. there have been sporadic clashes in the capital but the campaign for friday's election has been largely peaceful. describing the moderates and reformists as "extremists," javani said they were "trying by launching a psychological media war to announce themselves as winner of this election." iran often accuses western powers of seeking to undermine the islamic state through a "soft" or "velvet revolution" with the help of intellectuals and others inside the country. state television said that, as always at election time, all campaigning would be banned from thursday morning. cars plastered with pictures and campaign material would be stopped and seized, he said. "hitler's methods" mousavi and two other candidates running against ahmadinejad say he has lied about the state of the economy which is suffering from high inflation and a fall in oil revenues from last year's records. in a speech in tehran on wednesday, ahmadinejad said his rivals had broken laws against insulting the president and they could face jail. insulting senior officials is a crime in iran punishable by a maximum two-year jail sentence. "such insults and accusations against the government are a return to hitler's methods, to repeat lies and accusations ... until everyone believes those lies," the semi-official fars news agency quoted him as saying. ahmadinejad has accused mousavi's supporters, including former president akbar hashemi rafsanjani, of corruption. rafsanjani responded angrily, calling on the islamic republic's supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei to rein in ahmadinejad. mousavi says ahmadinejad has isolated iran with his vitriolic attacks on the united states, his combative line on iran's nuclear policy and his questioning of the holocaust. he advocates easing nuclear tension, while rejecting demands that tehran halt nuclear work which the west fears could be used to make bombs. iran, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter, says its nuclear programme is peaceful. friday's election will not change tehran's nuclear policy, which is decided by khamenei, but a victory for mousavi could herald a less confrontational relationship with the west. mousavi, who had been out of the political spotlight since serving as prime minister during the 1980-88 war with iraq, has attracted strong support and his sympathizers increasingly believe he could win the election. the outcome remains unpredictable. the relatively unknown ahmadinejad surprised everyone with his victory four years ago, and he has enjoyed khamenei's support throughout his presidency. analysts say no candidate is likely to gain the 50 percent needed for an outright first-round victory, forcing a run-off between the two front-runners a week later. they say that, even if mousavi were to defeat ahmadinejad, there would be no sudden change in relations with the west. "things in iran move slowly. it would mark a significant change, but it wouldn't reflect regime change," said ali ansari of the university of st andrews in scotland. --- budget to total 16.5 percent of total gdp  dhaka june 11 (bdnews24.com)finance minister ama muhith has proposed a budget of tk 1,13,819 crore for fy2009-10, or 16.5 percent of total gdp. in his budget speech, muhith has set the target for revenue collection at tk 79,461 crore. the budget deficit will amount to tk 34,358 crore. muhith proposed to meet the deficit by loans totalling tk 20,555 crore from internal sources while another tk 13,803 crore from foreign support the finance minister forecast 5.5 percent gdp growth for 2009-10. muhith announced the annual outlay in parliament from 3.15pm thursday, broadcast live on state-run tv and radio. the first budget of the new government comes with the back drop of global recession and awami league's expansive electoral pledges. prime minister sheikh hasina was present in the house, while opposition leader khaleda zia remained absent as bnp has been boycotting the budget session over a seating dispute. --- iran's ahmadinejad heads for big win  tehran, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad took an unbeatable lead in iran's election on saturday, official results showed, but his moderate challenger alleged irregularities and claimed victory for himself. the level of the incumbent's support, roughly twice as many votes as former prime minister mirhossein mousavi with most ballots counted, confounded analyst predictions of a tight race. a bitterly fought campaign generated intense excitement inside iran and strong interest around the world, with policymakers looking for signs of a change in tehran's approach in its row with the west over its nuclear ambitions. listing several complaints before official results were announced, mousavi said many people had not been able to vote and that there had been a lack of ballot papers. he also accused the authorities of blocking text messaging, which his campaign has used to reach young, urban voters. the islamic republic's election commission said ahmadinejad was ahead with 65 percent of the votes from friday's presidential election in the world's fifth biggest oil exporter after nearly 29 million ballots had been counted. mousavi had 32 percent support, said the commission. based on an interior ministry estimate of a maximum 80 percent turnout of iran's 46 million eligible voters, he could not beat ahmadinejad with the votes still to be counted. the official news agency irna said: "dr ahmadinejad, by winning most votes ... has secured his victory." it said final results would be announced at 8 a.m. (0330 gmt). speaking in washington before early results were announced, u.s. president barack obama said his administration was excited about the debate taking place in iran and he hoped it would help the two countries to engage "in new ways." analysts had said a victory for mousavi could help ease tensions with the west, which is concerned about tehran's nuclear ambitions, and improve chances of engagement with obama, who has talked about a new start in ties with tehran. mousavi had tried to pre-empt official announcements by calling a news conference at which he claimed victory and made his allegations about irregularities. "i am the definite winner of this presidential election," he said. it was unclear how his supporters, who thronged the streets of tehran nightly in the run-up to friday's vote, might react to an ahmadinejad victory. u.s. strategic intelligence group stratfor called the situation "potentially explosive," with a considerable risk of unrest. scuffles broke out early on saturday between police and chanting mousavi supporters in a tehran square, a reuters witness said. police say they have increased security across the capital to prevent any trouble. all gatherings have been banned until the publication of final results. campaign mudslinging shortly before voting ended, some tehran residents said they were unable to make international phone calls and some internet servers went down. the three-week election campaign was marked by mudslinging, with ahmadinejad accusing his rivals of corruption. they said he was lying about the state of the economy. ahmadinejad draws his bedrock support from rural areas or poorer big city neighborhoods. mousavi enjoys strong backing in wealthier urban centers, and was expected to attract votes from women and young iranians. two other candidates attracted only a tiny share of the vote, early results showed. under election rules, 50 percent of the vote is needed to win outright; otherwise a second round run-off would be held on june 19 between the two front-runners. long queues had formed at voting centers, after a heated campaign in which inflation -- officially around 15 percent -- and high unemployment were leading issues. ahmadinejad, 52, won power four years ago on a pledge to revive the values of the 1979 islamic revolution. he has steadily built up iran's nuclear program, rejecting western charges that it is aimed at building an atomic bomb, and stirred international outrage by denying the holocaust and calling for israel to be wiped from the map. mousavi, 67, rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but analysts say he would bring a different approach to iran-u.s. ties and talks on the nuclear issue. ultimately, however, nuclear and foreign policy are determined by the country's supreme leader, ayatollah ali khamenei. the united states has had no ties with iran since shortly after the revolution but obama said in washington the united states had "tried to send a clear message that we think there is the possibility of change" in relations --- islamabad remark 'misconstrued': pakistan  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)a comment by a pakistan foreign officer that war crimes trials in bangladesh may lead to a straining of relations between the countries was "misconstrued", the high commission in dhaka said in a statement on wednesday. an additional secretary to pakistan's foreign ministry, masood khalil, told visiting bangladeshi media in islamabad on june 6 that pakistan's relations with bangladesh might "cast a shadow" if dhaka went ahead with the trials. "we hope nothing will be done to create a slow down in our relations," masood had said, when asked to comment on dhaka's latest move to try the crimes against humanity during the 1971 war of independence from pakistan. the comment caused concern in bangladesh. law minister shafiq ahmed has said it violated norms of international relations. the pakistani high commission in its statement wednesday said: "remarks attributed to an official of the pakistan foreign ministry have evidently been misconstrued and quoted out of context." it also said: "pakistan enjoys good, friendly and brotherly relations with bangladesh. "it is determined to further strengthen these relations on the basis of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit and non-interference in each other's internal affairs." foreign minister dipu moni had told parliament just the previous day that the government would not tolerate any country's "interference" in the trial of war criminals. she also said bangladesh's relations with any country would "not influence" the trials. --- germany international jones wants to play for u.s.  halle, germany, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - germany international jermaine jones has informed the german football association (dfb) he wishes to play for the united states in future, the dfb said on friday. jones, who holds dual nationality, has played three times for germany but only in friendlies after narrowly missing the cut for the squad that finished as runners-up at euro 2008. the 27-year-old schalke 04 midfielder is taking advantage of fifa's recent decision to remove the age limit on changing national teams. "jermaine jones has informed the dfb thathe has decided to play for the american national team soon," the dfb said in a statement. germany coach joachim loew said he wished jones, whose last appearance for germany was in november against england, all the best in the future. "we have noted jermaine jones's decision and we accept it," loew said. "i wish him all the best in his sports future. --- tipai dam fears premature, says water minister  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com) - water resources minister ramesh chandra sen has said a joint survey by india and bangladesh will determine the full impact of the tipaimukh dam project. "the indian government has said that no water will be permanently diverted or withdrawn through the tipaimukh dam, which is a hydropower project," said sen, replying to questions in parliament on sunday. "a survey will determine whether the project will cast any negative impact on bangladesh," said sen in answer to a written query by bnp mp shahid uddin chowdhury anny. steps have been taken to undertake the joint survey according to 14th meeting of india-bangladesh joint river commission in january 1978, he said. "it will determine whether flooding can be controlled in bangladesh and other benefits reaped through this project," he said. in answering to a separate question, from workers party of bangladesh president rashed khan menon, he said the government has decided to send a parliamentary team to visit the tipaimukh dam site in india. the next step on the issue will be taken after the committee submits a report, said sen. trial of war crimes the government will file the cases against alleged war criminals, under its own initiative, the law minister said, replying to a query from awami league mp muhibur rahman manik. the cases will be filed under the international crimes (tribunals) act 1973 on the basis of the investigating agencies' reports, shafiq ahmed said. appointment of ombudsman the government has plans to appoint an ombudsman to establish rule of law in the country, shafiq said. the ombudsman will be appointed in line with recommendations from parliament, he said, in answer to a query from jatiya party mp ak moinul islam. bdnew --- in-form kallis rewarded for self-belief  nottingham, england, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa's jacques kallis always knew he could be a success in twenty20 despite being controversially dropped from the last world cup. the all rounder steered south africa to victory over england in their world cup second round clash on thursday and was named man of the match after scoring 57 not out from just 49 balls. kallis's two for 20 from three overs at trent bridge in south africa's first super eights match also led to england recording their lowest twenty20 total of 111. "i always believed that i could play this format, perhaps over the last couple of months i have shown a few people that, but i have never played this game to prove people wrong," he told reporters following the win over england. "i've played it to enjoy the challenge and to prove to myself i can do it and i've done that over the last few months." kallis considered retiring when he was left out of the squad for the 2007 world cup in his homeland but was persuaded to play on before securing a $900,000 indian premier league contract. "i've worked hard on a couple of things in the last two years with duncan fletcher and mickey arthur and i had a nice ipl as well which was perfect preparation going into this world cup," he added. fletcher works as a consultant to south africa coach arthur. "it's a format of the game that i really want to excel in and it's nice the hard work is paying off and to be part of a special team," added kallis. south africa's next match is against west indies at the oval on saturday (1230 gmt) --- blatter tells world cup sceptics to trust africa  johannesburg, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - fifa president sepp blatter rounded on sceptics in europe for doubting south africa's ability to stage a successful world cup finals next year, saying it was time for the sniping to end. speaking at a news conference two days before the start of the confederations cup, the eight-team world cup warm-up tournament, an angry blatter gave short shrift to those who criticised fifa's decision in 2004 to award south africa next year's finalsthe first to be staged in africa. "it is not the people of europe, but part of the media, who, from the very beginning were not at ease in trusting south africa, or africa at all, to organise the world cup," the 63-year-old swiss said on friday. "i do not understand this reluctance to go to africa and we are here, not only to honour africa but to give justice to africa and african football for all they have done for football. "but ever since i opened the envelope with the name "south africa" they said it would not work. why? every year 10 or 11 million tourists come to south africa. they have organised international competitions and conferences. why the hell is there always this question mark over football? "is there not a little bit of envy? well let them start trusting." the biggest fear surrounding next year's finals, and to a lesser degree the confederations cup over the next two weeks, regards security issues, in particular the high murder rate in south africa. phone call blatter said that south africa's new president jacob zuma phoned him on the day he assumed office last month to assure him of his personal and his government's intentions on security and other issues, adding: "people are always talking about security. give me the name of one country in the world where you have perfect security. it does not exist." he also said that he did not think that his legacy to football would be that he brought the world cup to the african continent for the first time. "it is not my legacy, it is an african legacy," he said, "as the president of fifa my legacy at the end should be the social and cultural movement in our society. "a world cup in africa can also help take the racism out of the game. if we did that the legacy would be a game the world can enjoy and not a game of tearstears perhaps when you lose, but nothing else." asked when he thought the olympic games might be held in africa he said that the only reason the world cup was in africa now was because fifa had a policy of rotating the finals around the world. he added: "if the olympic games are not rotated then i do not see how the olympic games can come to the african continent. that is my view as a member of the ioc (international olym;pic committee.)" he added that the confederations cup was not just a rehearsal for the world cup, but a high-level tournament in its own right. "we are not congratulating ourselves on anything yet, we can do that at the end, but i am very happy with everything so far," he said. danny jordaan, chief executive of the south african organising committee, said that 71 per cent of the 640,000 available tickets had been sold for the tournament which begins on sunday when hosts south africa play asian champions iraq in johanesburg and oceania champions new zealand take on european champions spain in rustenburg --- eu to seek rapid progress on financial regulation  brussels wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - european union leaders will call at a summit next week for rapid progress on agreeing and implementing new financial regulations to prevent another global economic crisis, a draft summit declaration showed on wednesday. the draft, prepared for the june 18-19 eu summit or council in brussels, showed the eu leaders would approve the creation of two new bodies to assess potential threats to financial instability and protect small financial firms and consumers. the banking sector remains under stress and credit flows are still constrained, so governments should be alert to any need for further measures to stem the crisis, said the draft, obtained by reuters. "the european council calls for rapid progress to be made in the field of regulation of (the) financial market, notably on the regulation on alternative investment funds and on improved capital requirements for banks," said the draft conclusions. "...the banking sector remains under stress and credit flows continue to be constrained. governments must therefore stay alert to possible further measures which may be needed. any further actions must be consistent with single market principles and take into account a credible exit strategy." the eu wants to show it is acting quickly to stem the crisis following a european parliament election in which a number of governing parties suffered defeat over their handling of the economy. the draft said the leaders of the 27 member states would agree to proposals to create a european systemic risk board to monitor and assess potential threats to financial stability and, where necessary, issue recommendations for action. they will also recommend that a european system of financial supervisors be established to safeguard financial soundness at the level of individual financial firms and protect consumers of financial services. the statement said the leaders wanted the new regulatory framework in place in 2010 and would urge "all parties to accelerate their efforts to support the recovery" before a summit of g20 leading and emerging economies in september. the leaders will also underline the need to fight unemployment, which has soared during the financial crisis, but say measures must be "coordinated, self-supporting and in line with single market rules." "the european union and its member states must assert their will to put people at the center of their recovery plans," the draft conclusions  --- tk 124 crore goes to rationing for law-enforcers, firefighters  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the proposed budget for fy 2009-10 has allocated an additional tk 124 crore for expanding rationing facilities for law-enforcing agencies and fire service. "alongside helping the law enforcing agencies enhance their professional skills, the aspects of their needs and security also come up quite relevantly," finance minister ama muhith said in his budget speech on thursday. "we've already increased the rationing facilities for the 1, 91, 780 members of our police, ansars and vdp, fire service and civil defence and national security intelligence directorate." "the government incurs an additional expenditure of tk 124 crore on that account alone." the finance minister said realistic reforms are a requirement to raise a professional law and order enforcers' army who'll be above all influence and intimidation. the government is mulling over a board based on people's representation to supervise and oversee such reforms needed for the purpose, he added, allocating tk 5, 801 crore to the home ministry at the same time. the minister informed the parliament that the war crimes trial will be ensured and appropriate measures were also being taken to tackle the islamist militants and other extremist elements. the trial of the murderers of independence leader sheikh mujibur rahman and the four national leaders will also be completed as soon as possible, he said. muhith said the government will not tolerate any extra-judicial killings and ensure judicial enquiries into all such unwarranted incidents. the government is reviewing the supreme court verdict on the fifth amendment to the constitution and considering amending the constitution based on the present deliberations. b --- us near tighter rein on tobacco after senate vote  washington, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the us senate on thursday backed a historic plan giving the us food and drug administration sweeping power over cigarettes and other tobacco products, allowing the agency to curb advertisements, require stronger package warnings and inspect manufacturers. supporters, backed by hundreds of health advocacy groups, cheered the bill's passage as a way to rein in cigarette makers and reduce smoking, especially among teenagers and children. "the tobacco companies' days of peddling one of the most deadly products in the world have finally come to an end," democratic assistant senate majority leader dick durbin said. "now, we've given the fda the tools necessary to protect millions of children and families from deadly tobacco-related diseases." under the measure, which passed in a bipartisan 79-17 vote, the fda would also collect millions of dollars in fees from cigarette makers, which must register with the agency and provide a list all the products they make. a similar measure has already passed the u.s. house of representatives. house speaker nancy pelosi said earlier on thursday she wanted to look closely at the senate's bill. "but from what i have seen so far, i believe it will be possible for us to accept their bill and send it right on to the president," she said. president barack obama, who has discussed his own struggles to quit smoking, said he will sign the bill into law, saying "it will make history by giving the scientists and medical experts at the fda the power to take sensible steps that will reduce tobacco's harmful effects and prevent tobacco companies from marketing their products to children." tobacco companies divided on bill the american cancer society, the american medical association and other advocacy groups urged quick final passage. tobacco companies, which suffered a blow last month when an appeals court agreed that the industry lied to hide the dangers of smoking, are divided over the likely new regulations. altria group inc's philip morris unit, the nation's largest cigarette maker, supports "tough but reasonable federal regulation of tobacco products," it said in a statement. but others, such as reynolds american inc's r.j. reynolds tobacco unit and lorillard inc's lorillard tobacco co, say new records and fees will be a burden. reynolds spokeswoman maura payne said the company would comply with the regulations when they become law, but that "a lot of the details are yet to be worked out." the bill explicitly bans flavored tobacco products, except for menthol. banning menthol could have especially hurt lorillard, the top menthol cigarette maker. the bill does call for a report on the impact of menthol cigarette use, especially among blacks, hispanics and other minorities. this is not the first time the tobacco companies have faced tighter controls. television and radio cigarette ads have been banned for decades, and package warnings have been around just as long. various court settlements over the years have also called for marketing restrictions. under the senate plan, advertising curbs would include print media with large youth audiences. it also calls for restricted vending machine sales, among other steps. new challenge for fda the bill's opponents said the fda, which has been dogged by various tainted food and drug safety scandals in recent years, is not up to the task of regulating yet another industry. some also said money would be better spent on programs to help people stop smoking rather than simply regulating a product that is known to cause death and serious illnesses. tobacco use causes more than 400,000 deaths in the united states a year, according to the centers for disease control and prevention. "we should focus fda resources on protecting the public health, not burdening it with an impossible assignment," said senate republican leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky, a tobacco state. but the senate health committee's leading republican -- sen. mike enzi, who initially opposed the bill -- voted in favor of the measure despite concerns that include how congress will fund the fda tobacco center long-term. "this bill is the only bill that will seriously keep kids from smoking," he said. "we know from past experience that tobacco companies are not inclined to follow the law." --- cannavaro to miss italy's confed cup opener  pretoria, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - italy captain fabio cannavaro will miss his country's opening match at the confederations cup on monday because of injury and could be out for their next game too, according to italian officials. cannavaro, 35, has a calf strain that stopped him from training with the rest of squad this week or playing in the warm up matches ahead of the start of the eight-team tournament, team doctor enrico castellacci told reporters on friday. italy meet the united states in their opening group b match in pretoria and play egypt next on thursday. the world cup winning captain, who is returning to juventus after a spell at real madrid, missed the 4-3 win over new zealand in midweek and a training match against a local team on friday. cannavaro is two matches away from matching paolo maldini's record of 126 caps for italy --- blast near us convoy kills afghan, wounds scores  asadabad, afghanistan, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a blast near a stalled us troop convoy in eastern afghanistan killed one child and wounded scores of civilians and three u.s. soldiers on tuesday, afghan officials and the us military said. some witnesses and the afghan education ministry initially blamed a us soldier for throwing a grenade into a crowd, but the us military said the grenade was russian-made and had been thrown by an insurgent. asadabad hospital doctor ehsanullah fazli said most of the wounded were children. some were in critical condition, he said. the military said in a statement that up to 54 afghan civilians had been wounded in the incident in asadabad, capital of kunar province in the east. it issued photos of what it said was a grenade fragment with russian serial numbers. "the grenade was definitely not thrown by a us service member," us military spokeswoman captain elizabeth matthias said. she said a convoy of us troops had stopped when one of their armored vehicles became stuck. the convoy took ground fire before the grenade was thrown at them, she said. still, many afghans were quick to blame the americans. the afghan education ministry said in a statement that us forces based in asadabad had thrown the grenade and that one student was killed and another 15 children were wounded. civilian casualties some of the wounded said they believed a us soldier had thrown the grenade after a us armored vehicle stopped because of a burst tire. "i was on my way to school. their tire burst, and then a soldier hurled a hand grenade from the convoy," said abdul wahab, 12, lying in a hospital bed with two shrapnel wounds in his leg. two other wounded victims at the asadabad hospital gave similar accounts. a 20-year-old shopkeeper near the scene, umranullah, who uses only one name like many afghans, also said a us soldier from the convoy had thrown a grenade. civilian casualties caused by us forces have become a big source of friction between the afghan authorities and their us allies, and have hurt public support even as the number of us troops in the country more than doubles this year. the pentagon acknowledged on monday that procedures had been violated during an air strike last month in which the afghan government says 140 civilians were killed. washington says 20-35 civilians were among 80-95 people killed, most of them taliban fighters, in that strike in western farah province in early may --- iran votes between ahmadinejad and moderates  tehran, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranians began voting on friday in a closely-fought election which pits hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad against a former prime minister who sharply criticizes his economic record and wants detente with the west. four candidates are standing in the poll but ahmadinejad's strongest challenger appears to be the moderate mirhossein mousavi, whose supporters have paraded through the capital tehran in their thousands to demonstrate their backing. the election outcome could help set the tone for iran's relations with the west, which is concerned about tehran's nuclear ambitions. a victory for mousavi could increase the prospects for western investment in the country, analysts say. but for iranians it is a chance to pass judgment on ahmadinejad's four years in office, particularly his management of the islamic republic's oil exporting economy, which is suffering from high inflation and unemployment. voting started at 8 a.m. (11:30 p.m. edt) and officials expect a high turnout from iran's 46 million eligible voters. preliminary results are expected early on saturday. if no clear winner emerges from friday's vote, a run-off will be held on june 19 between the two front-runners. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei, iran's top authority, urged people to turn out for the election as he cast his ballot. "everybody go and everybody vote and act based on their judgment," khamenei said in comments broadcast live on state television, urging people to do so early in the day. khamenei also warned of people who might seek to stir tension at polling stations. "if some wanted to create such tension people should not let them," he said. state television, showing live footage of people queuing at a tehran polling station, said a record turnout was expected. "sheer lies" although ahmadinejad says his government has revived economic growth and curbed price rises, the economy was the primary campaign issue. official inflation is around 15 percent. social issues, such as strict dress codes for women and iran's ties with the outside world, also featured in the campaign but the outcome of the vote will not shift iran's foreign policy, which is determined by khamenei. the united states has had no ties with iran since shortly after the 1979 islamic revolution and remains the "great satan" in the leadership's demonology. u.s. president barack obama has offered a new relationship if tehran "unclenches its fist." mousavi rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but analysts say he would bring a different approach to iran-u.s. ties and tehran's nuclear program, which the west fears is a cover to build bombs. iran denies this. the standoff over tehran's nuclear ambitions has deterred western investors in particular from doing business in iran, which sits on the world's second-largest oil and gas reserves. ahmadinejad's opponents, who also include liberal cleric mehdi karoubi and former revolutionary guard leader mohsen rezaie, have urged the interior ministry and khamenei to ensure there is no vote rigging. "i have concerns ... and we have prepared our forces to monitor the election," karoubi told reuters on thursday. ahmadinejad has ruled out any possibility of fraud and candidates' representatives will be allowed to witness the vote at each of the 45,000 polling stations across the country. khamenei, who in the past has voiced support for ahmadinejad's government, said rumors spread via mobile phone text messages on the eve of the election and citing him were "sheer lies." he did not give details. "don't pay attention to rumors," he said. --- iranians vote in droves, rival victory claims  tehran, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranians streamed to polling stations on friday in a hotly contested election and allies of hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad and his main moderate challenger issued rival victory claims. sadegh kharazi, a senior supporter of former prime minister mirhossein mousavi, told reuters that surveys made by reformers showed that mousavi was getting about 58-60 percent of the votes. but ahmadinejad's representative at a supervisory body, ali asghar zarei, said the incumbent was ahead with about the same level of support, the semi-official mehr news agency reported. due to heavy turnout, voting was extended by two hours to 8 p.m. (11:30 a.m. edt) to allow more people to cast ballots, the interior ministry said. long queues had formed at voting centers and officials said they expected a turnout of about 70 percent or more, approaching the record of nearly 80 percent when reformist mohammad khatami swept the 1997 presidential election. some people said they had waited for more than two hours to cast ballots, both in northern, affluent areas of tehran where mousavi draws support and in southern, poorer neighborhoods seen as ahmadinejad strongholds. high turnout could indicate voting by many pro-reformers who stayed away when ahmadinejad won four years ago on a pledge to revive the values of the 1979 islamic revolution. political analysts have said they expect a close race. a victory for mousavi might help ease tensions with the west, which is concerned about tehran's nuclear ambitions, and improve chances of engagement with u.s. president barack obama who has talked about a new start in ties with tehran. the vote has generated interest around the world with policymakers looking for signs of a change of approach by tehran, whose ties with the west worsened under ahmadinejad. for iranians it is a chance to pass judgment on his management of the islamic republic's oil exporting economy. although ahmadinejad, 52, says his government has revived economic growth and curbed price rises, inflation and high unemployment were the main campaign issues. official inflation is around 15 percent. "miracle" social issues, such as strict dress codes for women, as well as iran's ties with the outside world, also featured in the campaign but the outcome of the vote will not bring a major shift in iran's foreign policy, which is determined by supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei. the united states has had no ties with iran since shortly after the revolution, but obama has offered a new relationship if tehran "unclenches its fist" mousavi, 67, rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but analysts say he would bring a different approach to iran-u.s. ties and talks on tehran's nuclear program, which the west fears is a cover to build bombs. iran denies this. "people's strong, revolutionary and clear decision will bring about a bright future for the nation," ahmadinejad, a self-styled champion of the poor with strong support in rural areas, said while voting in a working class part of tehran. the three-week election campaign was marked by mudslinging, with ahmadinejad accusing his rivals of corruption. they said he was lying about the state of the economy. mousavi's wife zahra rahnavard broke new ground in the conservative islamic state by actively campaigning for her husband, 1a move hailed by women's rights activists. preliminary results are expected early on saturday. if none of the candidates win 50 percent of the votes, a run-off will be held on june 19 between the two front-runners. businessman ahmad vakili, 45, said he voted for the first time to deny ahmadinejad a second term: "it is essential for iran to have a moderate president not a hard-liner. the economy is failing, foreign diplomacy is not working," he said. student mohammad ravanbakhsh voted for the incumbent: "only some rich people vote for moderates. ahmadinejad understands poor people. he understands ordinary iranians. he is one of us." ahmadinejad's election rivals, who also include liberal cleric mehdi karoubi and former revolutionary guard leader mohsen rezaie, have urged the interior ministry and khamenei to ensure there is no vote rigging. ahmadinejad has ruled out any possibility of fraud. voting in tehran alongside his wife, mousavi said some of his representatives were denied access to polling stations to monitor the process. he also said text messaging, used to reach young voters during the campaign, had been closed down. "i thank all the people for their green presence which created a miracle," he said, referring to the colors worn by his backers who thronged tehran streets during the camp --- cia chief says bin laden in pakistan  washington, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - cia director leon panetta said on thursday the us intelligence agency believes al qaeda leader osama bin laden is hiding in pakistan and hopes joint operations with pakistani forces will find him. asked whether he was sure that bin laden was in pakistan, panetta told reporters: "the last information we had, that's still the case." bin laden, who has eluded a u.s. manhunt since the sept. 11, 2001, attacks, has issued audio and videotapes over the years demonstrating that he is still alive. finding bin laden is "one of our major priorities," panetta said. "one of our hopes is that the pakistanis move in militarily, combined with our operations, we may be able to have a better chance" to find the al qaeda leader, he said. panetta said al qaeda "remains the most serious security threat" to the united states and its leaders, particularly in pakistan, continue to plot against america. there are "a number of people" on the ground in pakistan providing intelligence on al qaeda targets to the united states, he said. the intelligence agency also is focusing on countries where al qaeda might find safe haven, like somalia and yemen, panetta said. --- us says north korea unlikely to take military action  brussels, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - north korea is unlikely to respond militarily to planned un sanctions for its nuclear test, although the possibility should not be completely dismissed, us defense secretary robert gates said on thursday. the draft u.n. security council resolution, written by the united states and endorsed by the four other permanent members plus japan and south korea, aims to hit the north's meager finances and authorize inspections of its cargo shipments. it is scheduled to be put to the vote on friday. "i don't think that there has been a commensurate change in the posture of the north korean military that would suggest an attempt to undertake operations," gates told reporters as he arrived in brussels for a meeting of nato defense ministers. but he said pyongyang was so unpredictable that it was probably "not wise" to dismiss out of hand north korean threats of military action. a russian foreign ministry source, quoted by itar-tass news agency, took a similar line, saying moscow did not expect the resolution to "whip up" the situation. "we don't expect any actions to follow, including from north korea, that would lead to an escalation of tension." north korea has been subjected to sanctions for years for military moves condemned by regional powers. analysts are not sure if new measures will have much impact on the impoverished state, whose economy has grown weaker since leader kim jong-il took over in 1994. some experts believe the resolution could draw sharp rebuke from the prickly north, which has threatened to test-fire an intercontinental ballistic missile unless the security council apologizes for punishing it for an april rocket launch widely seen as a disguised long-range missile test. north korea has angered asian neighbors and countries beyond in the past few weeks with missile launches, threats to attack the south and the nuclear test, prompting u.s. and south korean forces to raise a military alert on the peninsula to one of its highest since the 1950-53 korean war. blacklist ineffective president barack obama's special envoy for north korea, stephen bosworth, said the united states is taking defensive measures and preparing sanctions against pyongyang due to the nuclear test but prefers to settle matters through diplomacy. "our strong preference is to engage in serious, effective diplomacy," ambassador stephen bosworth told the senate foreign relations committee on thursday. bosworth said putting north korea back on the u.s. blacklist of state sponsors of terrorism would do little to penalize pyongyang because most of the related sanctions are already applied under other u.s. laws. bosworth told the panel washington was working through the united nations and with allies japan and south korea to step up sanctions and pressure on the north but preferred to return to six-nation nuclear talks with pyongyang that also includes russia and china. asked about curbs on north korean finances, bosworth told the committee: "we are looking at additional measures which will be very carefully targeted." he also told lawmakers the united states has seen no formal designation of a successor to kim jong-il. south korea's defense minister said on wednesday he saw the north's military moves as being aimed at building internal support for kim's government as the 67-year-old leader prepares for succession in asia's only communist dynasty. compromises the u.n. draft "condemns in the strongest terms" north korea's nuclear test last month and "demands that (it) not conduct any further nuclear test or any launch using ballistic missile technology." the end result reflects compromises to satisfy chinese and russian objections and is almost certain to be approved as it is backed by all five veto-wielding permanent council members. the 15-nation u.n. security council has scheduled a meeting at 10 a.m. (10 a.m. edt) on friday to discuss several international issues, with a vote on the north korean resolution around 11 a.m. (11 a.m. edt), the u.n. press office said. beijing and moscow had opposed language requiring all nations to inspect north korean ships carrying suspicious cargo that might violate a partial u.n. trade and arms embargo. in the latest version, the security council "calls upon" states to inspect suspicious sea, air and land cargoes, but does not demand it. arms sales are one of north korea's few sources of hard cash. the north has been preparing to test-launch as early as this month a long-range missile that could hit u.s. territory and mid-range missile that can hit all of south korea and most of japan, south korean officials have said. missile work with iran the head of the pentagon's missile defense agency said on thursday that north korea has been working with iran to develop missiles for years and they have made significant progress. "it really is an international effort going on out there to develop ballistic missile capability between these countries," army lieutenant general patrick o'reilly told a forum in washington. like north korea, iran is at odds with much of the international community over its nuclear program. both countries have demonstrated a capability to launch missiles with more than one stage, critical to more advanced systems. they are sharing know-how on avionics, propulsion and materials, o'reilly said, and their ability to fire missiles with a stable ignition and launch a second stage represents "a significant step forward." --- 'could spur industry, exports may struggle'  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com) - it may spur growth of local industries but is not so export friendly, said business leaders in reaction to the finance minister's budget speech in parliament thursday. "emphasis has been laid on domestic industry in the budget," former fbcci president mir nasir hossain told bdnews24.com. the budget proposes to reduce import duty on raw materials and increase it on finished goods. "this will help our industries to grow," he said. finance minister ama muhith has offered to reduce duty from seven percent to five percent on industrial raw materials. "it will make local industries more competitive in national and international markets," said hossain. duty would be raised on newsprint, powder milk, shoes, suitcases, finished leather goods including bags, ceramic products, particle board, plywood, mosquito coil, imitation jewellery, among others manufactured products. this encourages domestic production of these goods, said hossain. the budget emphasises power, too, he said. some 2,810 mw extra power production is targeted for 2013. in an unprecedented move, the budget has proposed a three year term to legalise undisclosed money at a rate of ten percent duty and providing it is invested in certain sectors including the stock market, start-up industries and physical infrastructure. "although there is a question over such proviosions, it would be positive if undisclosed money can be channelled to the mainstream economy." the total deficit in the proposed budget has been estimated at tk 34,358 crore, with tk. 16755 crore to be made up by domestic bank loans. "this will create pressure on the banks if," said islam. not export, business friendly former bgmea president anwar-ul-alam chowdhury parvez believes the proposed budget is not export and business-friendly. "i have been surprised at the biggest export sectorstextiles and ready made garmentsnot having any place in the budget," he told bdnews24.com. "sixty lakh people are directly and around two crore are indirectly employed in the sectors." "much importance has been put on micro sectors, and major ones avoided in the budget," he said. pointing to a huge gap between projected expenditure and earnings, he said, "it will cast a shadow over industries." "the government will have to go to banks for borrowing to fill the deficit, which means banks may show reluctance in investing in industry." "industry is the foundation of future growth. farm land is on the decline," said parvez. "so, the government has to keep in mind that the economy must be carried forward by industry." on public-private partnerships, to be supported by a proposed infrastructure development fund, he said, "the government should have a regulatory body in this case." "we should also see whether the policy can be more business-supportive." "none can reap benefit from these if the government aims to participate with private initiatives on an equal footing." on the government offer to offer public service employment to students after passing hsc or equivalent exams, he said, "it is very unrealistic." he said the government must view things "from a realistic angle, not a political one". "they should be going to the private sector. job creation will be foiled if the government wants to offer them jobs," said parvez. "but overall human resources development and social safety net aspects are positive." "and this budget sets gdp growth targets on a long-term basis, which is also good," he said. bdnew --- ronaldo sale does not affect sponsor deal, say aon  chicago, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - manchester united's proposed record sale of portuguese winger cristiano ronaldo does not affect aon corp's new shirt sponsor deal with the english premier league champions, the company said. "our agreement is with manchester united, not over any particular player, but more the franchise and the brand," aon spokesman david prosperi said late thursday. "news of this type does not impact our agreement at all." united said on thursday they had accepted real madrid's staggering offer of 80 million pounds for ronaldo. last week, aon, the world's largest insurance broker, agreed to a four-year deal to sponsor the shirts of united starting with the 2010-2011 season. united's current sponsorship deal with u.s. insurance giant american international group pays 14 million pounds annually and expires in june 2010. u.s. media reports have pegged aon's deal at 20 million pounds a year. the deal with united was seen as a coup for aon due to the soccer club's huge, global fan base that continues to grow, especially in asia. aon chief executive greg case described united one of the most recognized sports brands in the world. united rely on sponsorship for about a third of their revenue, and the club pays about 43 million pounds a year to service 660 million pounds in debt created when u.s. owner malcolm glazer bought the club in 2005 --- a$5bn world cup bonanza no sneezing matter-australian pm  sydney, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hosting the soccer world cup finals in 2018 or 2022 could contribute more than a$5 billion ($4.07 billion) to the country's economy, australian prime minister kevin rudd said on sunday. rudd was officially launching the country's bid to host the finals at a slick ceremony, which was also broadcast live on television, at parliament house in canberra. "even if you have no passion for this great game, look simply at the economics of it," rudd said. "look at the extraordinary opportunity for australia. "the total revenue to be derived, when you take into account visitations  and from the additional opportunites for business we stand to earn some a$5 billion from this single event. "it's not to be sneezed at." rudd added the television exposure generated from hosting the finals would be invaluable to australia's global recognition. "this is much bigger than economics. this is an extraordianry opportunity for us to showcase australia to the world," he added. "the cumulative viewing audience for the 2006 world cup (in germany) was 26 billion  it is projected the 2010 world cup in south africa will rise to 40 billion. "the rugby world cup we hosted in 2003 had a total audience of 3.2 billion." australia is bidding against england, russia, indonesia, japan, qatar, south korea, the united states, mexico and joint bids from portugal and spain and the netherlands and belgium for rights to host either the 2018 or 2022 finals. a decision on the successful bids will be made by world governing body fifa in december 2010. the australian government pledged a$45 million to help the bid campaign, which would also highlight australia's expertise at organising large scale sporting events, rudd said. "we are good at doing these things and it is the combination of that expertise that will underpin our prospects in realising this bid," he added. "we have done it with the olympics in melbourne. we did it again in sydney. we have done it with three commonwealth games, and we did it for the rugby world cup. "the challenges are great, but the prize is much greater. --- man utd have made offers for winger valencia, say wigan  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - manchester united have tabled offers for wigan athletic's ecuador winger antonio valencia, the premier league club's chairman dave whelan has said. "they (united) have been in touch with us and we will be starting negotiations very shortly, i would imagine," whelan told sky sports news when asked about valencia. "united have been in touch with us over antonio for the last two or three months, expressing an interest and actually putting cash offers on the table. "those things have got to be picked up now. i think they were waiting to see if ronaldo actually went to real, which has happened." united said on thursday they had accepted an 80 million pound ($132 million) bid for ronaldo from real madrid. the 23-year-old valencia, who has featured 34 times for his country, plays in a similar position to the portugal winger. british media said on saturday that valencia would command a fee of about 17 million pounds. "things will develop over the next seven to 14 days," added whelan. "the master, which is (united manager) sir alex (ferguson), he makes his moves when he is ready. whelan said he was not desperate to sell valencia. "if i can keep that lad, i'm going to keep him. he is one brilliant player. "so there is no pressure on me, or our football club to sell him. if man united don't want to make a (written) offer, i'll be delighted and we will have him in our team next season." however, whelan added he would not stand in valencia's way if he wanted to move to old trafford. "if antonio valencia says to me, 'chairman, i want to go to manchester united' and we get the right fee, the deal will be done. --- president signals no change in iran's nuclear policy  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - president mahmoud ahmadinejad said iran's nuclear issue "belongs in the past" on sunday, indicating there would be no change in nuclear policy during his second term in office. the hard-line president made his comments at a news conference broadcast by iranian state television. iranian police again clashed on sunday with demonstrators protesting in tehran against his re-election. analysts said the poll result would disappoint western powers trying to convince the world's fifth biggest oil exporter to halt nuclear activities they suspect are aimed at making bombs. tehran denies this saying its aim is to generate power. ahmadinejad was planning celebrations in the capital later on sunday. his unexpectedly overwhelming victory and its violent aftermath raised fresh questions about how iran will respond to us president barack obama's diplomatic overt --- who poised to declare first flu pandemic since 1968  geneva, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world health organisation (who) was poised on thursday to declare that the new h1n1 virus has caused the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years, health sources said on thursday. the move will trigger heightened health measures in the who's 193 member states as authorities brace for the worldwide spread of the virus that has so far caused mainly mild illness. flu experts advising who director-general dr margaret chan, who were due to convene at 1000 gmt, were expected to recommend moving to the top phase 6 on the who's six-point scale, the sources said. that would reflect the fact that the disease was spreading geographically, but not necessarily indicate how virulent it is. "phase 6, if we call a phase 6, doesn't mean anything concerning severity, it is concerning geographic spread... pandemic means global, but it doesn't have any connotation of severity or mildness," who spokesman gregory hartl said. "in fact, what we are seeing with this virus so far is overwhelmingly to date mild disease. so we would think that this event is really a moderate event for the time being, because the numbers are high but the disease is overwhelmingly mild," he told reuters television before the talks. widespread transmission of the virus in victoria, australia, signalling that it is entrenched in another region besides north america, is likely to be the trigger for moving to phase 6. five people have been admitted to intensive care in australia and over 1,000 cases confirmed following widespread testing in the state. "we have tested 5,500 people in the last two weeks, that is more people than we test in our whole influenza season," said victorian state premier john brumby. one health source, who declined to be named, said the experts were also expected to recommend finishing production currently underway of seasonal flu vaccine for the northern hemisphere next winter. "they might say finish seasonal vaccine and say begin pandemic vaccine as soon as it is feasible," he said. drugmakers have obtained the new influenza a (h1n1) seed virus in the past two weeks, enabling them to begin the production process by growing the virus in eggs. company officials said on wednesday that they were on track to have a vaccine against the new strain ready for the northern hemisphere autumn. seasonal flu each year kills up to half a million people, mainly elderly, and causes severe illness in millions, so a premature switch in vaccine production to cope with the new strain could put many people at risk. the strain, which emerged in april in mexico and the united states, has spread widely in places including australia, britain, chile and japan. authorities in germany have confirmed 27 cases of h1n1 at a school in the industrial rhineland city of duesseldorf, the most concentrated outbreak of the virus so far in europe's biggest economy. there have been 27,737 infections reported in 74 countries to date, including 141 deaths, according to the who's latest tally of laboratory confirmed cases, but the real number of people with the disease is likely to run into at least hundreds of thousands, as mild cases may not have been detected. the united nations agency said on tuesday that it was on the verge of declaring the first influenza pandemic since 1968, but wanted to ensure that countries were well prepared to prevent a panic over the disease, widely known as swine flu. chan, a former health director in hong kong, has consulted previously with the group of international experts before raising the alert level. confirmed community spread in a second region beyond north america would trigger moving to phase 6 -- signifying a full-blown pandemic -- from the current phase 5 on the who's 6-level pandemic alert scale, which indicates one is immi --- s.africa and iraq ready to kick off confederations cup  johannesburg, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hosts south africa or asian champions iraq could well be on course for a semi-final place if they can win their opening match in the confederations cup which kicks off on sunday (1400 gmt). with european champions spain expected to win the group and oceania champions new zealand widely predicted to finish bottom of the group a quartet, the runners-up spot is up for grabs with the prize a place in the last four. south africa's brazilian coach joel santana said on saturday that his team were all ready and that playmaker teko modise would start the game against iraq despite being clattered in training on saturday morning. bora milutinovic, iraq's widely-travelled coach who has only been in charge of the squad for a few weeks, said he was relishing the biggest challenge of his life and was optimistic his team would do well against the hosts, despite the vociferous home support they will receive at ellis park. the second match of the day is at the royal bafokeng stadium in rustenburg (1830 gmt) where spain look to extend their 32-match unbeaten run against a new zealand team that led world champions italy three times in a friendly in pretoria on wednesday before going down to a 4-3 defeat. spain, top of fifa's world rankings for a year and among the favourites to win the world cup in south africa in 2010, have won their last 12 matches and have brought a strong squad to south africa, including fernando torres who scored in their 1-0 win over germany in the euro 2008 final. spain have never met new zealand in a full international and their only previous meeting dates back to the 1997 world under-17 cup when spain beat the "all whites" 13-0. spain are unlikely to enjoy such mastery again on sunday but it will be a major upset if they do not chalk up their 13th successive victory and take their own first step towards the last four --- merchant, 2 associates sent to jail  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)indian felon held by bangladesh police, abdur rauf dawood merchant along with two detained associates, all alleged to have ties to indian mafia kingpin dawood ibrahim, have been sent to jail after 14 days of remand in two phases, their lawyer said on saturday. the threemerchant, fellow indian zahid sheikh and bangladeshi kamal mia, facing charges under the passport act and foreigners actwere produced before the chief metropolitan magistrates court by investigation officer ashraful haque, their lawyer hemayet uddin khan hiron told bdnews24.com. another associate arif hossain, who was picked up by police on june 6 in mohammadpur on suspicion of being a 'recruiter' in bangladesh for ibrahim, is reaching to the end of his seven day remand. db police picked up the fugitive merchant, who was hiding out in bangladesh, and his two associates, last month. merchant was convicted and sentenced by an indian court in 2001 for murdering mumbai music director gulshan kumar. the cmm court remanded hossain under the foreigners act after his arrest last saturday, for illegal entry and stay in bangladesh. bd --- man united accept record real bid for ronaldo  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - manchester united have accepted a world record bid of 80 million pounds ($131.7 million) from real madrid for portuguese winger cristiano ronaldo, the english champions said on thursday. united, who fended off the spanish club's interest in the world and european player of the year 12 months ago, have given the nine-times european champions the go-ahead to talk to him. "manchester united have received a world-record, unconditional offer of 80 million pounds for cristiano ronaldo from real madrid," the club said. "at cristiano's requestwho has again expressed his desire to leaveand after discussion with the player's representatives, united have agreed to give real madrid permission to talk to the player. "matters are expected to be concluded by june 30." real madrid confirmed they had made an offer for ronaldo. "the club expects to reach an agreement with the player in coming days," real said in a statement. should real complete the signing of the 24-year-old it would seal a remarkable double for the spanish giants who snapped up brazilian playmaker kaka from milan this week for a fee reported to be around 68 million euros. kaka was the first player to be signed since florentino perez returned to the presidency this month and real madrid appear intent on continuing their spending spree. prized asset united have always rejected the advances of real for their most prized asset, even threatening to report them to fifa last year. however, they now seemed resigned to losing ronaldo, who has often said it would be his dream to play for real, albeit for a staggering sum of money. ronaldo joined united from sporting lisbon in 2003 as an 18-year-old following david beckham's move to real madrid and quickly established himself as arguably the most high-profile player in the premier league. his goals have helped united win three consecutive premier league titles as well as last year's champions league when he scored in the final against chelsea. in the 2007-08 season he scored 42 goals which topped the previous club record for a midfielder held by george best. last season he managed 26 goals, taking his tally for united to 118 in 292 appearances. in january he beat barcelona's lionel messi and liverpool striker fernando torres to win fifa's world player of the year award, the first player from an english club to win it. ($1 = 0.607 pounds) --- bravo heroics give west indies upset win  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - dwayne bravo produced a tremendous performance with bat and ball to help west indies register an upset win over defending champions india in their twenty20 world cup second round match at lord's on friday. bravo followed up his four for 38 in india's 153 for seven with an unbeaten 66 from 36 balls, ending the match with a flourish by lofting zaheer khan for six over extra-cover. west indies won by seven wickets with eight balls to spare. india struggled from the outset after electing to bat in their first super eight match against some express bowling from fidel edwards. edwards regularly exceeded 145 km an hour during his opening spell from the pavilion end, taking two early wickets as india managed only 40 runs from the opening six overs when the fielding restrictions were in place. at 66 for four from 12.1 overs, india were in real trouble but andre fletcher dropped yuvraj singh off bravo and the left-hander celebrated with 67 from 43 deliveries. fifty-six came from the final five overs. west indies captain chris gayle, who flayed australia for a match-winning century in the first round, was unusually subdued after fletcher (0) had thrown his wicket away, scoring 22 from 28 balls. lendl simmons (44 from 37) played some fluent shots off his legs and bravo, haring between the wickets, lifted the tempo, adding 58 for the third wicket from 41 balls. bravo, with west indies requiring 45 from 30 balls, found the perfect partner in the experienced shivnarine chanderpaul (18 not out). sixteen runs came from the 17th over and 15 off the 18th, setting the scene for man-of-the match bravo's heroics --- afghans urge europeans to share burden with us  brussels, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - afghanistan's defense minister urged european governments thursday to step up their military and other efforts for his country to share the burden equally with the united states. "i hope there will be additional support for the mission in afghanistan," abdul rahim wardak said before a meeting of nato defense ministers in brussels that will discuss the struggling international effort against islamist militancy in afghanistan. "the burden should be shared equitably," he said, when asked if he wanted european countries to do more after big increases in the us military and financial commitment to the country. wardak said the focus should be on helping afghans build up their own security forces and said he wanted nato countries to contribute more to a trust fund set up to finance the training and day-to-day running of the afghan armed forces. the fund has currently received only about 24 million euros in contributions and another 221 million euros pledged for running costs of the afghan security forces -- well short of the $2 billion a year that will be needed. the united states and its nato allies are aiming to boost the size of the afghan army to 134,000 and the afghan police force to 86,000 by 2010, which will require stepped up training missions and funding. the project is still short of trainers and nato hopes ministers will pledge at least 13 more military training teams and deploy paramilitary police trainers promised by eu states. us defense secretary robert gates urged european allies on wednesday to remain engaged even as washington boosts its troop numbers by more than 30,000 this year. no excuse a senior u.s. official said it was time for european states to deliver on pledges they had made at a nato summit in april and to be prepared to do more. "there's really no excuse not to be able to participate in this mission," he said. "the united states will put more troops, it will deploy more trainers, it will have more money in the trust fund, it will increase the civilian surge and it will provide economic assistance," he said. "if a country cannot offer to send more troops then it ought to send more trainers. a country that can't send more trainers ought to pay more for the trust fund and the country that doesn't have money for the trust ought to pay more for economic assistance or send more diplomats or agricultural specialists." for years, washington has urged its allies to contribute more troops, civilian reconstruction experts and aid to the fight against the taliban and other insurgent groups. many have been reluctant, however, to make major new commitments, saying their forces are overstretched and citing public opposition to greater involvement in the war. nato spokesman james appathurai said it was important for the alliance to avoid a perception that afghanistan was too much of an american operation. "if there is an imbalance it is politically more difficult to sustain," he said. "it is equitable burden sharing for not just the americans to increase but the others either militarily and or on the civilian side with personnel or with mo --- new ppp sector to get tk 2100 crore  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)tk 2100 crore has been allocated for the newest avenue of this year's budget, public private partnership (ppp). finance minister ama muhith in his budget speech thursday stressed measures to attract private investment in critical infrastructure projects. "i propose to create three new 'expenditure heads' in the fy 2009-10 budget to facilitate new projects under ppp," said the finance minister. the first expenditure head named ppp technical assistance would see allocations of tk 100 crore for feasibility studies and preparatory works before involving the private sector. the proposed budget sets aside another tk 300 crore in viability gap funding as subsidy or "seed money" to attract private sector spending for power plants, hospitals, schools, roads and highways which are non-profitable but essential for public services. another tk 2100 crore has been allocated to accelerate the process of investment through ppp by setting up an infrastructure investment fund. the government would use the fund to provide equity or loan to the private investors to ensure government's participation. the finance minister added that the challenge was to set up an institution for proper of ppp allocations. "according to our plan we hope that ppp budget management will be fully operational by next september." bdnews --- north korea responds to un with nuclear threats  seoul, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - north korea said on saturday it would start a uranium enrichment program and weaponize all its plutonium in response to fresh un sanctions, which the united states said it would work vigorously to enforce. pyongyang also threatened military action if washington and its allies tried to isolate it. the un security council approved a resolution on friday that banned all weapons exports from north korea and most arms imports into the country. it authorized un member states to inspect north korean sea, air and land cargo, requiring them to seize and destroy shipped goods that violate the sanctions. on saturday, us secretary of state hillary clinton said north korea's "continuing provocative actions are deeply regrettable." "they have now been denounced by everyone and have become further isolated," clinton said during a news conference with her canadian counterpart in niagara falls, canada. "this was a tremendous statement on behalf of the world community that north korea's pursuit of nuclear weapons and the capacity to deliver those weapons through missiles is not going to be accepted by the neighbors as well as the greater international community," clinton said of the un resolution. kcna news agency quoted an unnamed north korean foreign ministry spokesman as saying in a statement, "we'll take firm military action if the united states and its allies try to isolate us." north korea would start a program to enrich uranium for a light-water reactor, he said. experts said north korea lacks the technology and resources to build such a costly reactor but may use the program as cover to enrich uranium for weapons. north korea would "weaponize all plutonium and we've reprocessed more than one-third of our spent nuclear fuel rods," the spokesman said clinton said the united states would work with other nations to enforce the un resolution "in a vigorous way to send a clear message that we intend to do all we can to prevent continued proliferation by the north koreans." clinton said there is "still an open opportunity" for north korea to return to six-party nuclear disarmament talks with the two koreas, the united states, russia, japan and china. squeeze concessions north korea has raised tensions in the region in the past months by test-firing missiles, restarting a plant to produce arms-grade plutonium and holding a may 25 nuclear test, which put it closer to having a working nuclear bomb. north korea also this month sentenced two us journalists, laura ling and euna lee, to 12 years hard labor for "grave crimes," saying they illegally entered the country. clinton had appealed for the release of the two women on humanitarian grounds. the impoverished country for years has used its military threat to squeeze concessions out of regional powers willing to pay pyongyang for taking steps that decrease regional risks. in lecce, italy, finance ministers of the group of eight wealthy countries said they were "committed to the effective and timely implementation of financial measures against north korea" as set out in the un resolution. north korea responded to the un punishment for an april rocket launch, widely seen as a disguised long-range missile test, by saying it had restarted a plant that separates plutonium from spent fuel rods and threatening to test fire an intercontinental ballistic missile. north korea's soviet-era yongbyon nuclear plant was being taken apart under a now-stalled disarmament-for-aid deal among pyongyang and five regional powers. the spent fuel rods cooling at yongbyon can produce up to one more bomb's worth of fissile material, experts said. the united states has long suspected north korea, which has ample supplies of natural uranium, of having a program to enrich uranium for weapons, which would give it a second path toward producing atomic weapons. studies have shown that un sanctions imposed on north korea for missile testing and its only prior nuclear test in 2006 had almost no impact, while its meager trade actually increased due to lax enforcement of those measures. "the success of financial sanctions depends heavily on how far china and the united states are willing to go to pressure north korea," said jeong hyung-gon, a research fellow at the korea institute for international economic policy. the isolated country's $2 billion annual trade with neighboring china, equal to about 10 percent of north korea's annual gdp, is its most important economic relationship. beijing has wanted to avoid any measures that could cause north korea's economy to collapse and lead to chaos on its border --- arsenal sponsor emirates says happy with top 10 finish  kuala lumpur, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - emirates airline is happy with its arsenal sponsorship deal as long as the premier league team finishes in the top 10, the company's president said. "we didn't expect them to win the champions league or the premiership," tim clarke told reuters on tuesday. "so long as they finish in the top half." arsenal, who signed a 15-year deal worth 100 million pounds ($160.9 million) with emirates in october 2004, have not won a trophy since they lifted the fa cup in 2005. their last league title came in 2004 and manager arsene wenger's side finished fourth this season a massive 18 points adrift of champions manchester united. the north london club, which reached the champions league semi-finals this term, will have to qualify for a place in the group stage of next season's money-spinning competition. the emirates deal included shirt sponsorship and naming rights for the stadium which opened in the 2006/07 season. asked if the dubai airline would also consider sponsoring another football team, clarke said: "watch this space." airline profits have been hurt by a slump in demand for travel and air freight amidst the financial crisis, but emirates still plans to expand with $55 billion worth of plane orders --- real move a chance too good to miss, zidane tells ribery  paris, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - zinedine zidane, an advisor to real madrid president florentino perez, has spoken to france midfielder franck ribery to try and convince him to move to the spanish capital from bayern munich. "i am in talks with franck," the former three times world player of the year, who wore the real shirt from 2001 to 2006, told sunday's edition of french newspaper le dauphine libere. "he is a fantastic player who has his place at real. and playing in this team is a career opportunity, which, to me, you do not refuse. "it would be a nice opportunity for franck. it is up to him." real are on the verge of signing cristiano ronaldo after manchester united accepted a world record bid of 80 million pounds ($132.1 million) for the portuguese forward earlier this week. brazil playmaker kaka has already joined from ac milan for a reported fee of 67 million euros ($94.27 million), while ribery is likely to cost around the same amount, if reported bids for the 26-year-old are anything to go by. "bringing together the best players in the world has a cost," said zidane --- who set to declare first flu pandemic since 1968  geneva, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world health organization was poised on thursday to declare that the new h1n1 virus has caused the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years, health sources said on thursday. the move will trigger heightened health measures in the who's 193 member states as authorities brace for the worldwide spread of the virus that has so far caused mainly mild illness. who director-general dr margaret chan was to hold a news conference on the outbreak at 1600 gmt (12:00 p.m. edt). flu experts advising chan, who met earlier on thursday, were expected to recommend moving to the top phase 6 on the who's six-point scale, the sources said. that would reflect the fact that the disease, widely known as swine flu, was spreading geographically, but not necessarily indicate how virulent it is. "phase 6, if we call a phase 6, doesn't mean anything concerning severity, it is concerning geographic spread ... pandemic means global, but it doesn't have any connotation of severity or mildness," who spokesman gregory hartl said. "in fact, what we are seeing with this virus so far is overwhelmingly to date mild disease. so we would think that this event is really a moderate event for the time being, because the numbers are high but the disease is overwhelmingly mild," he told reuters television before the talks. david heymann, a former top who official now chairing britain's health protection agency, said that countries had tried to contain the virus through measures including school closures during the current phase 5. this has extended the precious time needed to prepare for a full-blown pandemic. "during phase 5, the government and people in the uk. have had the time to prepare for a pandemic -- this has hopefully decreased any surprise and concern that might be associated with a who announcement of phase 6, if one is made," he told reuters. as it spreads in humans, science cannot predict what course the virus will take, the disease it causes and the age groups infected, heymann said. "the severity of that disease, the effectiveness of antiviral drugs and the stability of the virus must all be watched closely," he added. a pandemic could cause enormous disruption to business as workers stay home because they are sick or to look after family members and authorities restrict gatherings of large numbers of people or movement of people or goods. world markets shrugged off the possibility of a pandemic, as investors focused on possible global economic recovery. australia likely trigger widespread transmission of the virus in victoria, australia, signaling that it is entrenched in another region besides north america, is likely to be the trigger for moving to phase 6. five people have been admitted to intensive care in australia and more than 1,000 cases confirmed following widespread testing in the state. "we have tested 5,500 people in the last two weeks, that is more people than we test in our whole influenza season," said victorian state premier john brumby. one health source, who declined to be named, said the experts were also expected to recommend finishing production currently under way of seasonal flu vaccine for the northern hemisphere next winter. "they might say finish seasonal vaccine and say begin pandemic vaccine as soon as it is feasible," he said. drugmakers have obtained the new influenza a (h1n1) seed virus in the past two weeks, enabling them to begin the production process by growing the virus in eggs. company officials said on wednesday that they were on track to have a vaccine against the new strain ready for the northern hemisphere autumn. seasonal flu each year kills up to half a million people, mainly elderly, and causes severe illness in millions, so a premature switch in vaccine production to cope with the new strain could put many people at risk. the new strain can be treated by antiviral drugs oseltamivir, the generic name of roche holding's tamiflu tablets, and relenza, a spray made by glaxosmithkline. the strain, which emerged in april in mexico and the united states, has spread widely in nations including australia, britain, chile and japan. authorities in germany have confirmed 27 cases of h1n1 at a school in the industrial rhineland city of duesseldorf, the most concentrated outbreak of the virus so far in europe's biggest economy. there have been 27,737 infections reported in 74 countries to date, including 141 deaths, according to the who's latest tally of laboratory confirmed cases, but the real number of people with the disease is likely to run into at least hundreds of thousands, as mild cases may not have been dete --- gul`s record t20 haul propels pakistan to victory  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pace bowler umar gul captured a record five wickets on saturday to propel pakistan to an overwhelming six wicket victory over new zealand in their twenty20 world cup second round match at the oval. gul's five for six from three overs, the first five-wicket haul in a twenty20 international, destroyed the new zealand middle order as the kiwis collapsed to 99 all out in 18.3 overs. it was the lowest score of the tournament from a test playing nation after south africa bowled england out for 111 at trent bridge on thursday. pakistan were unrecognisable from the under-prepared side who lost by 48 runs to england in the first round last sunday. abdul razzaq, recalled to the side after two years in the indian cricket league in place of the injured yasir arafat, made the early breakthrough by dismissing the dangerous brendon mccullum for 12. shahid afridi was again a constant threat with his flat leg-spin, varying his pace cleverly to take one for 17. he also took a brilliant catch to dismiss scott styris (top scorer with 22), racing towards the boundary with his back to the pitch to grab a lofted on-drive. pakistan knocked off the runs from 13.1 overs, completing a miserable day for new zealand captain daniel vettori who was making his first appearance of the tournament after a shoulder injury. vettori bowled the fourth over of the innings, with the fielding restrictions still in place, and saw his third ball disappear over his head for six. he rallied, along with his team, to finish with a respectable two for 20 from his four overs but the result was neve1r in --- khaleda getting security she deserves: sahara  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com) opposition chief khaleda zia is being provided the security as much as she deserves in accordance with the law, the home minister said on wednesday. "the opposition leader is being provided security as per the law. it won't change in the future," sahara khatun told reporters at the secretariat, a day after the bnp had alleged that the government had withdrawn police deployed for her security. sahara also said security had been beefed up at all court premises across the country fearing the terrorist and militant attacks. she referred to the series bomb attack in 63 districts including at court premises in 2005. "that's why we have taken the precaution on being alerted to possible attacks," she said. the minister called on all to watch out for the militants and hand them to the law enforcers. she said the investigation agency would be formed as soon as possible to speed up the process for the trial for war crimes. the home, law and foreign ministries will take joint measures to this end, she added. the law ministry had previously said formation of tribunal, investigation agency and appointment of lawyers would be finalised by june 30. earlier, saudi arabia's ambassador abdullah-bin-nasser al bushahi met with the home minister at her office. "we have discussed sending trained workers to saudi arabia, providing facilities to the bangladeshi hajj pilgrims and ensuring facilities for the bangladeshi workers there," sahara said. meanwhile, the home ministry's public relations officer md shahinur miah said state minister for home tanjim ahmed flew to the us on tuesday night and was expected to return home on july 7. b --- sunamganj by-polls kick off  sunamganj, june 15 (bdnews24.com)voters were casting their votes on monday to elect their mp in the sunamganj-4 by-election. the seat became vacant on the death of jatiya party mp momotaj iqbal in april. polling which started at 8am is due to continue through to 4pm. "voter presence looks rather poor, but the polling is being conducted properly," sirajul islam, presiding officer, shologhar primary school, sunamganj, told bdnews24.com in the morning. candidates contending for the seat include the ruling awami league-led grand alliance's matiur rahman, bnp-led four-party alliance's fazlul haque aspia and the national people's party's krishak mohammad sadek. a total 230,835 voters are registered to cast their ballots at 105 polling stations throughout the constituency. bdn --- fox steals more than 100 shoes  berlin, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a fox has been unmasked as the mystery thief of more than 100 shoes in the small western german town of foehren, authorities said friday. a forest worker stumbled upon shoes strewn near the fox's den and found a trove of footwear down the hole which had recently been stolen overnight from outside locals' front doors. "there was everything from ladies' shoes to trainers," said a local police spokesman. "we've found between 110 and 120 so far. it seems a vixen stole them for her cubs to play with." although many were missing laces, the shoes were in good condition and their owners were delighted to reclaim them, he said, adding that no reprisals were planned against the culprit --- us not seeking to topple north korea government: envoy  new york , wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united states will do what is necessary for the security of its allies but has no plans to invade north korea or overthrow its government by force, washington's special envoy, stephen bosworth, said on tuesday. speaking at the annual dinner of the korea society in new york, bosworth said north korea's recent missile and nuclear tests were provocative and undermined its own security. he said north korea's actions "require that we expand our consideration of new responses, including our force posture and extended deterrence options," but he rejected north korea's assertion that it was reacting to us hostility. "we have no intention to invade north korea or change its regime through force," bosworth said, urging pyongyang to return to six-party talks with washington, china, japan, russia and south korea. those five countries have been trying for years to persuade the impoverished north to give up its efforts to build a nuclear arsenal in return for massive aid. bosworth said washington was also open to bilateral dialogue to achieve the goal of a denuclearized korean peninsula and the normalization of relations with pyongyang. "continuing to threaten and alienate its neighbors denies north korea the security and respect it claims to be seeking," bosworth said. "the united states will do what it must do to provide for our security and that of our allies." "notwithstanding north korea's recent actions, we and the other participants in the (six-party) talks remain open to meaningful dialogue and serious negotiations," he said. "north korea should be shown a clear path towards acceptance in the international community." bosworth also appealed to pyongyang on humanitarian grounds to release two us journalists arrested in march and sentenced on monday to 12 years hard labor. efforts by the united states and japan to expand sanctions to punish north korea for its may nuclear test failed to produce a deal on tuesday in the un security council, where china and russia have been reluctant to provoke pyong --- pavon strike puts honduras back on course for world cup  san pedro sula, honduras, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - carlos pavon struck an early goal to give honduras a 1-0 win over neighbours el salvador, putting them back on course for a place at the world cup finals. the win lifted honduras to third in the concacaf world cup qualifying tournament with seven points from five games. el salvador are fifth with five, one below mexico, who beat trinidad & tobago 2-1. the top three teams qualify directly for south africa and the fourth plays off against the fifth-placed south american side for another place. honduras and el salvador, who fought a five-day war 40 years ago after a series of world cup qualifiers fuelled existing bad feeling over salvadorean immigrants in honduras, are both trying to qualify for the world cup for the first time since 1982. el salvador, boosted by a shock 2-1 win over mexico on saturday, began brightly but it was the hosts who took the lead when 35-year-old pavon scored from a rebound in the 14th minute. honduras, despite missing striker david suazo through injury, almost went 2-0 up just after halftime when pavon's shot was cleared off the line --- $10 billion remittance expected  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)in spite of the current global economic downturn the finance minister expects over 10 billion dollars in remittance in the 2009-10 fiscal year. "though the remittance flow has slowed down a bit due to global recession it will cross ten billion dollars in the next fiscal year," he said in his budget speech on thursday. the remittance inflow is 8.76 billion dollars in the current 2008-09 fiscal year and it was 7.98 billion dollars in the 2007-08 fiscal year.  --- 3 labourers killed in sirajganj truck crash  sirajganj, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  three people were killed and 10 injured as a truck lost control and crashed by the roadside at mulibari point in sirajganj on wednesday, police said. west jamuna bridge police chief md rowshan mostafa said the accident took place at around 6am as the thakurgaon-bound truck coming from dhaka laden with cement reached the western end of the bridge. two of the dead were identified as bablu, 40, and shamsu, 38, of jaldhaka upazila in nilphamari district, said the police chief. the bodies were taken to sirajganj general hospital. the deceased and the injured were day-labourers, mostafa said. bdn --- amzad ali sarkar, bksp, azimpur win in girls' school cricket  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  amzad ali sarkar girls high school 'a', bangladesh krira shikkha protisthan and azimpur girls high school & college won their respective matches in the girls' school cricket tournament on sunday. amzad ali sarkar girls high school 'a' (100-2) recorded a 38-run win over their junior side amzad ali sarkar girls high school 'b' (62-9) at the gulshan youth club ground. bksp registered a 10-wicket win over rahmatullah model high school as the sports institute raced to 31 for no loss in three overs in reply to rahmatullah's paltry 30 all out in 15 overs at the azimpur girls high school ground at the own venue, azimpur girls high school & college defeated par gandaria by 22 runs as the winners restricted gandaria to 56-9 in 20 overs after making 78-8 in the stipulated 20 overs. bd --- al ally jsd gives mixed budget reaction  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com) jatiya samajtrantik dal-jsd, one of the key members of the awami league-led grand alliance government, expressed a mixed reaction on the proposed budget on saturday. the party's budget review meeting hailed the government's move to fulfill electoral pledges, but termed the budget's provision for whitening black money as 'unethical' and at the same time an obstacle' to creating economic stability. the meeting proposed identifying sources and sectors responsible for breeding black money and tackling them. it also alleged that the budget had no specific details ofg new projects in the development sector. it demanded a rise in allowance for insolvent freedom fighters to tk 5,000 and launching a food programme for working class people. the party also called expanding telecom and internet services with much cheaper rates. the meeting, chaired by jsd president hasanul haque inu, was also addressed by syed zafar sajjad, sharif nurul ambia and others. b ---  'compromise' forced money whitening offer: muhith  'compromise' forced mo --- oil rises to $72 as iea raises demand outlook  london, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - oil firmed to $72 a barrel on thursday after the international energy agency raised its estimate for 2009 oil demand, adding to signs the fall in consumption may have bottomed out. world oil demand will contract by less than previously expected this year, the international energy agency (iea) said as it raised its 2009 forecast for the first time since august 2008. olivier jakob, oil analyst at petromatrix, said markets were now in a phase of identifying green shoots of economic recovery. the iea report "will likely be taken as an additional green shoot," he said. us crude rose 66 cents to $71.99 a barrel by 1337 gmt (9:37 a.m. edt), a near eight-month high. brent crude gained 48 cents to $71.28. falling inventories in top oil consumer the united states also supported prices. us crude stocks fell by a sharp 4.4 million barrels last week, against expectations for a modest draw of 400,000 barrels, while products inventories also dropped, the energy information administration (eia) reported on wednesday. gasoline inventories fell 1.6 million barrels last week against forecasts for a 800,000-barrel build as gasoline demand rose by 0.4 percent over the four-week period, the start of the us summer driving season, the eia said. distillate stocks, including diesel and heating oil, fell by 300,000 barrels, versus analysts expectations for a 1.4 million barrel increase. data from china, the second-largest oil consumer, suggested rising demand. china's crude imports in may rose 5.5 percent from a year ago, the second-highest volume on record, the general administration of customs said on thursday. the us dollar fell again against a basket of currencies on thursday, adding support to dollar-denominated commodi --- georgia's abkhazia less secure without monitors: un  tbilisi, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - failure to extend the united nation's monitoring presence in georgia's breakaway abkhazia region would undermine stability and leave ethnic georgians there unprotected, the mission head said on friday. the mission's mandate expires on june 15, and the un security council is split between the west and russia over the wording of a resolution to extend it. russia wants it to reflect abkhazia's assertion that it is an independent state, recognized by the kremlin and secured by russian forces since last year's five-day war between russia and georgia over the rebel region of south ossetia. georgia, backed by the united states and european members of the security council, insists the document must reaffirm georgian sovereignty over the black sea region, which broke away in war in the early 1990s with the collapse of the soviet union. un special representative johan verbeke did not discuss the chances of a deal, which diplomats say is on a knife-edge. but he cautioned that without the mission, "you end up having a situation where there is no longer the security regime, where there are no longer the monitors, and therefore intrinsically a situation where stability is less secured than it is currently." "you basically leave the population on its own," the belgian diplomat told reuters in tbilisi. "it (the population) has to stay there, but there is no ... international presence on which they can rely for securing a minimum environment that allows them to live normally." abkhazia's ethnic georgian community complains of discrimination and harassment, and says security has worsened since last year's war. instability, refugees analysts warn that instability in abkhazia and the possibility of a new refugee wave could worsen political tensions in tbilisi, where the opposition has been protesting for two months demanding president mikheil saakashvili quit. several dozen egg-throwing protesters scuffled with security guards outside parliament on friday after the assembly defied the protests and sat for the first time since the opposition took to the streets in april. the mandate for around 170 un observers in abkhazia was extended in february with a resolution that largely fudged the issue of territorial integrity and even the name of the mission -- officially the united nations observer mission in georgia. saakashvili said on thursday georgia would not compromise on its territorial integrity, "regardless of how much we might want to maintain the un mission." georgian un ambassador kakha lomaia told reuters that a draft resolution prepared by western powers would beef up the mission's monitoring role, but that veto-holding moscow remained opposed to the text. a similar dispute over sovereignty has forced a halt to negotiations on the mandate of military monitors of the organization for security and cooperation in europe (osce) in south ossetia, after russia insisted they be separated from the mission in georgia. the osce monitors have been unable to enter south ossetia since august, when russia crushed a georgian assault on the region. the mission has until june 30 to pull out of geo --- govt to invite metro rail bids soon  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)the government is set to invite bids soon for the dhaka metro rail project to ease traffic snarls in the capital, the communications minister said on wednesday. "the dream of a metro rail has been unrealised for too long," syed abul hossain told reporters after a ministry meeting. "today's meeting has decided to invite tenders as soon as possible. the ministry will form a committee to finalise the terms of the tender, he said. the proposal on forming the committee will be placed for approval within seven days at the cabinet committee on economic affairs. "on approval, the committee will finalise terms and conditions and be set to invite tender," said the minister. hossain said bidding would be invited for the complete works including feasibility. the bidder would eventually hand over the charge to the government, he said. in reply to a query on another major proposed transport system for the capital, the minister said the government would initiate both the metro rail and elevated expressway "simultaneously." the minister chaired the meeting, attended by cabinet secretary abdul aziz, roads and railways secretary asm ali kabir, members of the planning commission, and representatives of ministries and department concerned. bdn --- ignored cholesterol blamed for heart attacks  london, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - danish researchers said on tuesday they have found the strongest evidence yet that an often ignored form of cholesterol can cause heart attacks. they said people with higher levels of a little-understood form of cholesterol called lipoprotein (a), which varies up to a thousand fold from one person to another, were also more likely to have heart attacks. statins -- taken by millions to cut heart attack and stroke risk -- do not affect lipoprotein (a) but the findings may encourage the development of new cholesterol-lowering drugs, said borge nordestgaard of copenhagen university hospital, who led the study. the research, published in the journal of the american medical association, showed that people with the highest liporotein (a) levels were two to three times more likely to have a heart attack than those with the lowest levels. "we have shown that lipoprotein (a) is causing heart attacks," nordestgaard said in a telephone interview. lipoprotein (a) is one of several forms of cholesterol found in the blood, with levels determined almost entirely by genetics. statins lower levels of low-density lipoprotein, commonly known as "bad" cholesterol. top-selling statins include pfizer's lipitor, known chemically as atorvastatin, and astrazeneca's crestor, or rosuvastatin. "this study may explain why statins don't work for some people," nordestgaard said. to show the role of lipoprotein (a) role in heart attacks, the danish team analyzed the genes of 45,000 men and women who gave blood samples for a large national survey starting in 1976, tested their lipoprotein (a) levels and then followed them until 2007. high levels people with the highest levels of this cholesterol had the most heart attacks, the study found. one certain genetic variation accounted for about a quarter of the cases of high lipoprotein (a). "liprotein (a) has been around for a long time as a risk factor but people hadn't taken it too seriously because they didn't think it caused heart attacks," nordestgaard said. "now we show that, like ldl, it is causing heart attacks." one problem is that people have little control over the cholesterol, whose levels can vary up to a thousand-fold among individuals, nordestgaard added. niacin, a vitamin often prescribed generically to lower cholesterol, also lowers lipoprotein (a) levels. it can cause uncomfortable flushing, however. aspirin can also lower lipoprotein (a) levels. merck & co markets a drug called tredaptive in europe that combines niacin with an anti-flushing agent but the drug has been rejected by u.s. health regulators. nordestgaard said he hopes the study will spur drugmakers to begin work on a new drug specifically aimed at lipoprotein(a) levels. --- egypt's mubarak says obama has new approach to islam  cairo, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - barack obama has presented a fresh understanding of islam not shown by predecessors, egyptian president hosni mubarak said in his first interview since the us president addressed the muslim world from cairo. obama called for a "new beginning" in ties between the united states and muslims, many of whom felt targeted by the "war against terror" launched by former president george w. bush after the sept. 11, 2001 attacks, and his wars in afghanistan and iraq. "under the past administration, there was a feeling that the islamic world was a group of terrorists, islam was hated and muslims should be watched, and that the previous administration was scared of any muslim," mubarak said. "but obama came and said we will not fight muslims and islam. he is a sympathetic man, and says the united states will not fight islam because islam is a heavenly religion," he told state television in an interview broadcast late on wednesday. obama told muslims in his june 4 speech that violent extremists had exploited tensions between muslims and the west and that islam was not part of the problem. his speech was welcomed by many muslims, though some said they wanted him to spell out specific actions to resolve long-running problems like the palestinian-israeli conflict. mubarak said he discussed the palestinian issue with the us president after telling israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu, on a visit to egypt prior to obama's, that israel needed to stop building settlements. "obama understands this issue well," mubarak said. "obama wants to solve the issue (of the palestinian-israeli conflict) and wants to do something, but we must help him on how to solve it ... and the israelis must help him." in his speech, obama told both sides they had to declare publicly the realities he said they accept in private, a blunt message for a new us president; his predecessors waited longer in office before tackling the thorny issue of middle east peace. obama also said he would "personally pursue" a drive to set up a palestinian state alongside israel, a solution backed by mubarak and other arab states but not by netan --- camara takes over as guinea coach  conakry, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former liverpool striker titi camara has replaced sacked frenchman robert nouzaret as guinea coach after the team lost to ivory coast in a world cup qualifier on sunday. "we have decided to stop working with nouzaret after the recent poor results," guinean sports minister fodeba isto keira told reuters on tuesday. "we have agreed that he will be paid three months salary rather than 20 months." guinea have lost their last two world cup qualifiers to burkina faso and ivory coast. nouzaret's salary, reported to be around 23,000 euros per month, had already drawn criticism from the head of the military junta that seized power in the impoverished west african nation last december. "it was becoming too expensive and the team wasn't going anywhere," the minister added. "we have taken this decision for nouzaret's own security. he no longer got on with the players or the supporters." camara, who played for guinea at the 2004 african nations cup, had been technical director --- australia maintain unbeaten streak with win over bahrain  sydney, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - australia maintained their unbeaten record in the final round of asian world cup qualifiers with a 2-0 win over bahrain at the olympic stadium on wednesday. midfielder mile sterjovski broke the deadlock when he scored in the 55th minute and left back david carney sealed the group one win with a goal in the 88th. australia had already secured their place at next year's world cup in south africa and are yet to concede a goal after seven of their eight matches in the last stage of qualifying. they play japan, who have also qualified for the 2010 world cup, in melbourne next week. bahrain are still in the hunt to finish third in the group and advance to the playoffs but need to win their last match against uzbekistan to be absolutely sure of progressing --- national service, returning home schemes won't be politicised: motia  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)agriculture minister motia chowdhury has said national service and returning home programmes proposed in the budget will not be politicised. awami league had initiated returning home programme in its previous term in power, she told reporters at a post-budget press briefing at national economic council on friday. slum dwellers behind sonargaon hotel were sent back home for tk 5,000 each. the government that time had not profiled them on their political affiliation, motia said tk 20 crore has been allocated in the proposed budget for professional and creative training programmes for the youth with higher secondary or equivalent qualification as a part of employment generation. the national service project would be trialed in barguna and kurigram, she said. tk 92 crore allocation has been proposed in the budget for returning home programme to train and employ slum dwellers in different professions after sending them back home, motia added. subsidy on fertiliser has been cut to tk 3,600 crore from tk 5,785 crore in the outgoing fiscal year. "just on assuming office, awami league government granted 50 percent subsidy on fertiliser, which no government did in the past," the minister added --- bnp boycotts budget speech  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com) - the main opposition bnp remained absent on thursday as the first budget of the awami league-led government was announced in parliament. finance minister ama muhith began announcing the annual outlay from 3.15pm broadcast live on state-run tv and radio. prime minister sheikh hasina was present in the house. but opposition leader khaleda zia was absent as her party has been refusing to take up their benches in the house over a seating dispute that began last january as the new parliament convened following two years of caretaker governm --- khodeja bowls amjad ali sarkar to victory  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  a five-wicket haul from khodeja powered amjad ali sarkar pilot high school 'a' to a massive 9-wicket win over viqarunnisa noon school & college 'a' in the girls' school cricket tournament on saturday. after being put in to bat, viqarunnisa were skittled out for just 19 runs in 9.2 overs in the face of fierce spells from khodeja (five for four) and rehena (three for four) at the azimpur girls high school ground. in reply, amjad ali sarkar pilot high school 'a 'reached 20-1 in four overs. in the day's other match, viqarunnisa noon school & college 'b' beat amjad ali sarkar pilot high school 'b' by six runs under the parabola method in the rain-hit match at the same ground. viqarunnisa noon school & college 'b' side were far better than their a side as they made 63-10 in 17 overs after being asked to bat by amjad ali sarkar pilot high school 'b'. amjad ali sarkar pilot high school were 15-3 in 5.2 overs when rain stopped the game. bd --- atn bangla land papers fake: rajuk  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)private television channel atn bangla's claims of owning the land at 69 gulshan avenue have no legal basis, a rajuk official said on thursday. city development authority rajdhani unnayan kortripakkha assistant director mostafa jamil khan (estate-1) told bdnews24.com that the channel had bought the 21-katha plot from a fake owner. abdur rashid khan, from whom the tv station said it had purchased the plot in march, was not the real lessee. "he was hanging around in the office with fake lease papers. he came to us. but after scrutinising the papers it was found that his papers were phony." armed intruders broke into the home of retired civil servant abdul qaiyum in his 80s at around 1:30am on wednesday and tried to forcibly evict him and his wife from their decades-old home. they overpowered the night guards, but faced stiff resistance from neighbours' security men. atn bangla chairman mahfuzur rahman purchased the land from rashid on the company's behalf, saiful bari, spokesperson for the tv station, said on wednesday. according to document shown by bari, they bought the 21-katha plot for tk 2.25 crore, but according to current market price each katha of land in upscale gulshan neighbourhood costs about tk 2 crore. bari showed rajuk the service charge receipt as the proof of ownership by abdur rashid but could not show any lease papers. "the number of the plot is cwos (a) 13. however, rajuk has changed the number. rashid has taken the house as lease from the rajuk and it has not been handed over to him (rashid) as well." "but no one from atn bangla tried to illegally grab the house; those who did so are not associated with atn bangla," said bari. he said a signboard seized by police bearing atn bangla's name was not theirs. asked why they bought the land whose ownership had been disputed, bari said most of the lands had complications over ownership. even though bari claimed that rashid himself had not been handed over the house, the land documents say rashid had been living in that house. qaiyum, who began his civil service career in the colonial era, retired as chairman of biwta in the pakistan days and is widely respected among neighbours. a number of neighbours alleged police complicity in the whole affair. "they were refusing to arrest the 11 already tied up by the guards," alleged one. "and when my son called the oc, the officer was clearly reluctant to respond, pretending he did not know where the place of occurrence could be," the neighbour said. "this is absolutely unacceptable ... how can this happen in the middle of the night? and on gulshan avenue?" fumed another neighbour, who saw at the first hand much of what followed the abortive bid to oust the helpless couple. "this is daylight robbery in the middle of the night," a qaiyum relative said. police arrested 11 of the assailants, but at least four managed to escape. a metropolitan magistrate on wednesday gave gulshan police two days to question the 11 detainees. a number of witnesses said police appeared "reluctant to respond". qaiyum's nephew ruhul quader told bdnews24.com the attackers had entered the house by breaking down the doors. but four of the raiders were detained by guards from the house next door, belonging businessman abdul awal mintoo, a former fbcci president. the other seven were overpowered inside qaiyum's house compound. the eighty-seven year old qaiyum said: "we bought this house and have been living in it since 1970. how could this happen?" salman f rahman, former fbcci president and qaiyum's relative, went to the scene after he was informed of the incident. the qaiyum family said a general diary had already been registered with the gulshan police by atn bangla, which claimed the house belonged to the tv station. "the attackers came with a huge signboard," said a neighbour. the board, still propped up in the driveway hours later, read: 'atn bangla have bought and own this plot 3ws(a)69'. how it all happened shafiqul islam, a guard of the house of qaiyum, told bdnews24.com that a few people knocked at the main gate while two to three men got over the wall, held him hostage and opened the gate. some eight to 10 armed people with black clothes wrapped around their faces got down inside the house complex from a microbus, which had no number plate, shafiqul said. qaiyum's domestic help razia begum said that assailants were armed with rods, hockey sticks, machetes, knives and firearms. the intruders took qaiyum to the microbus and also tried to take his wife out of the house. they vandalised the furniture of the house, she said. ruhul quader, a relative of the qaiyums, said as neighbours came out, the intruders tried to flee. seven of them were arrested from qaiyum's house and four others from abdul awal mintu's house. ruhul said the atn bangla authorities filed a general diary with gulshan police station a few days back, claiming that the house belonged to the tv station. harun-or-rashid, assistant police commissioner of gulshan zone, said the atn bangla chairman, mahfuzur rahman, claimed the house to be his and mentioned quaiyum as tenant in the diary. ruhul said police officers 'sharif' and hasan mahmud from gulshan police station had came to the house two to three days back and said qaiyum was not the owner but a tenant. they wanted to talk with qaiyum. bdnew --- dispute on co2 cuts forms roadblock to copenhagen  bonn, germany, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a small reference on page 776 of a mammoth un scientific report to cuts in greenhouse gases far deeper than those on offer by rich nations has become a main roadblock towards a new un climate treaty. for developing nations at two-week un talks in bonn ending on friday, the outlined emissions cuts by developed nations of 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 have become vital for a deal due to be agreed in copenhagen in december. many developed nations, however, say such curbs meant to avert the worst of climate change would cripple their economies. "the minus 25 to 40 range has become a sort of beacon," yvo de boer, head of the un climate change secretariat, told reuters. "it is very much in the back of people's minds as something to measure the success of copenhagen against." the 25-40 range was based on only a handful of studies and did not even make it to the "summary for policymakers" of the three-part report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), drawing on work of 2,500 experts. "very little progress has been made on setting targets," shyam saran, special climate envoy to indian prime minister manmohan singh, said of the bonn talks. developing nations led by china and india say the rich should aim for cuts in emissions, mainly from burning fossil fuels, of at least 40 percent. they say that evidence of global warming, such as melting arctic ice, has worsened since 2007. and small island states, who fear being washed off the map by rising sea levels, say the rich should cut by at least 45 percent below 1990 levels. "forty percent by 2020 is a rather reasonable target" if the problem is as big as now widely believed, saran said. de boer noted the level was not an agreed target, merely a scenario for avoiding the worst of global warming. obama cuts many developed nations led by the united states say the number is out of reach -- president barack obama wants to cut u.s. emissions back to 1990 levels by 2020, a 14 percent cut from 2007 levels, and by 80 percent below by 2050. and japan set a 2020 target this week of just 8 percent below 1990 levels. "a level of minus 25 percent is still possible but it will be quite difficult," said bill hare of the potsdam institute for climate impact research who was an author of the ipcc's final summary. he said that recent scientific findings had backed up the range. the 25-40 percent did not make it to the summary more for technical reasons than for doubts about its validity. the 25 to 40 percent gained wide political prominence when a reference to page 776 and other findings were included as a footnote to a document launching talks on a new treaty at a meeting of more than 190 nations in bali in 2007. so far, offers on the table by rich nations total cuts of between 8 and 14 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, hare said. the european union is offering 20 percent cuts, or 30 if other developed nations join in. and the same page 776 says that developing nations should make a "substantial deviation" by 2020 to slow the rise of their emissions from business as usual. that judgment splits rich and poor into two starkly different camps rather than, for instance, setting a sliding scale of cuts with the richest making the deepest. "both sides feel they are being asked to do too much," said alden meyer of the union of concerned scientists. it was unclear how deadlock will be broken. the rich might offer deeper cuts or the poor could back down, perhaps in return for clean technologies and far more aid. hare said that russia, the main country which has yet to set a greenhouse gas goal and whose emissions are already about 30 percent below 1990 levels after the collapse of the soviet union, could make a big difference. a russian 2020 goal maintaining current levels would deepen overall promised cuts to between 12 and 18 percent. but some countries suggest that cuts do not have to fall within the range, especially if later reductions are deeper. "there are other trends that are possible," jonathan pershing, head of the us delegation in bonn and an ipcc author of the chapter that included the 25-40 percent range, said in a briefing late last m --- berlusconi's wife: my reputation has been "muddied"  rome, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the wife of italian prime minister silvio berlusconi said thursday that her reputation had been "muddied" by the media after her public demand for a divorce on grounds of infidelity plunged her husband into a major scandal. veronica berlusconi unleashed a storm of public criticism over her billionaire husband's private life last month when she accused him of "frequenting minors," after he was photographed at the 18th birthday party of an aspiring model in naples. some media, including outlets controlled by 72-year-old berlusconi's mediaset group, responded with stories about the private life of veronica, a former actress and his second wife. "in these weeks i have watched in silence, without responding in the media, the brutal muddying of my person, my dignity and my marital history," veronica said in a letter to italy's best-selling corriere della sera newspaper. she said italian media had not even touched on the reality of her relationship with berlusconi, or asked why she had been forced to announce her frustration with their relationship through the media. "what is certain is that i have always loved him and i have arranged my life around my marriage and my family," she said. berlusconi, whose center-right party did less well than expected in last weekend's european elections but still emerged as italy's strongest force, has been quoted as saying that his wife had been his most effective opponent in the campaign. her allegations prompted media scrutiny of a new year's eve party in berlusconi's sardinian villa to which he reportedly invited dozens of young women and accusations that he had used state aircraft to fly his party guests to sard --- britain's former pm thatcher breaks arm in fall  london, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former british prime minister margaret thatcher was taken to hospital on friday after breaking her arm in a fall at her london home, her spokesman said. the 83-year-old conservative politician, known as the "iron lady" during her 11 years in power, will stay in the chelsea and westminster hospital in london overnight as a precaution. "she had a fall this morning and has injured her arm and is in hospital," her private secretary mark worthington said. "her spirits were quite good on the way to hospital, although she was in a bit of discomfort with the injury." thatcher, britain's first woman prime minister, has suffered intermittent health scares since she was forced from power by her own conservative party in 1990. she suffered a series of mild strokes in late 2001 and 2002 and cancelled several engagements a few months later due to an undisclosed illness. on the advice of her doctors, she cancelled her public speaking schedule and cut back personal appearances. one of her most recent public engagements was a meeting with pope benedict in rome last month. during her time in office, thatcher was known as a tough workaholic who needed little sleep. she swept to power in 1979 and went on to become britain's longest-serving prime minister of the 20th century, winning three elections in a row. she won the 1983 election on a wave of patriotism after she sent a naval task force to the south atlantic to retake the remote falkland islands from an argentine occupation force. her free-market policies of privatisation, deregulation and cuts to public spending polarised britain. a friend and close ally of the late us president ronald reagan, she once praised him for winning the cold war "without firing a shot". in march 2008, thatcher was taken to hospital for tests after feeling unwell during a dinner at the house of lords, britain's upper house. she was also admitted to hospital in 2005 after a having dizzy spell at her hairdresser  --- feni soccer club meet peul smriti on friday  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)  the final round matches of group b and d in the bashundhara champions club cup begins on friday at the shamsul huda stadium in jessore with feni soccer club taking on peul smriti sangsad of jhenidah. the matches of group a and c will get underway on saturday at cox's bazar with pabna brothers union facing barguna abahani kc on the opening day. as many as 12 qualifiers, split into four groups, will play round-robin matches and top side from each group will play the semi-finals at separate venue. group a : brothers union of pabna, sadar upazila krira sangsha of shariatpur and abahani kc of barguna. group b : feni soccer club, youngmen club fakirerpool of dhaka and peul smrity sangsad of jhenidah. group c : shuktara jubo sangsad of narayanganj, grc sporting club of narsingdi and chittagong mohammedan sc (blues). group d : fantos sports association of rangpur, shaheed muktijoddha moeen smriti sangsad of jessore and dinajpur football academy. bd --- bgmea slams 'money whitening culture'  dhaka, jun 14 (bdnews24.com)the culture of allowing 'black money to be whitened' should come to an end, readymade garment exporters said on sunday, though they did not go so far as to demand the scope offered in the new budget. "undisclosed money is being encouraged as repeated scopes are being given to legalise it how long will it continue?" said bgmea president abdus salam murshedi. "we would want it to come to an end this time," he said at a post-budget press conference in the capital. the last three governments have offered scope to legalise undisclosed income by paying a penalty. the awami league-led government in its proposed budget for the coming year has also offered the 'black money' amnesty, but this time for an unprecedented three-years stretch. finance minister ama muhith has levied a 10 percent tax and set the condition that the money must be invested in the capital market, industry or physical infrastructure projects. murshedi said it will have "negative" impacts, but the association will not ask the government to cancel the offer. he recommended the government create a transparent tax system, through which it would net more taxes. the bgmea president also criticised the proposed budget saying that it has neglected the export sector. "although the government has allocated tk 3,424 crore in combating the global economic slump, there is no specific allocation for readymade garments, on which around two crore people depend for their livelihoods," said murshedi. he said 63 garment houses have already collapsed due to the recession, while 200 more on the edge. there was no specific direction in the budget on the allocation of tk 5,000 crore as assistance for the recession-hit institutions, he added. bdne --- residents cling to 30 'at risk' hills in chittagong  mintu chowdhury bdnews24.com chittagong correspondent chittagong, june 11 (bdnews24.com)in spite of the deaths in two landslides in consecutive rainy seasons, thousands of families continue to live in perilous settlements at the peaks, flanks, foots and on fringes of around 30 hills of the port city. around 2,000 families are living illegally in seriously risky settlements and 4,000-5,000 families in less perilous settlements, the department of environment (doe) says. "serious damage to property and loss of life can happen if the settlers are not moved from there," said abdus sobhan, director of doe. "some influential people are behind this illegal settlement bringing the homeless to the fore," he said, quoting a survey. these settlements are not knocked down because of a lack of effective initiatives by the administration and for local influential people, said environmental activist sharif chouhan. "tough implementation of the hill cutting laws is needed," he said. nine of the 30 hills belong to water and sewerage authority (wasa), bangladesh railway (br), chittagong city corporation (ccc), bangladesh police and chittagong medical college authorities. the most perilous areas are police line in the kusumbagh area, hills adjacent to the garibullah housing society, wasa-controlled motijhorna pahar and adjacent areas, gol pahar adjacent to ispahani textile mills, hills adjacent to the lakeview residential areas of north pahartoli, tankir pahar of bayejid area, siraj shah colony and amin textile, foot and rolling plains of the hills adjacent to the staff quarters of the medical college. the less perilous ones are bishwa colony, north kattali nandan housing, khulshi brick field, south khulshi zakir hossain society, south khulshi residential area, sb nagar, khulshi valley residential area, suchana vip residential area, dolphin, adjacent hills of king of chittagong community centre and foot and surrounding areas of samara hill. as many as 128 people died in landslide at the tankir pahar in motijhorna area at lalkhan bazar, kusumbagh area, kaichaghena adjacent to cantonment and lebu bagan on june 11, 2007. a committee of experts, formed to investigate the incident, made some recommendations to stop hill cutting, take steps against those involved and settlements in the foot and flanks of the hills. but none of those has been implemented. district administration and ccc took initiatives last rainy season to shift the families but they are still there. again, 11 people died on aug 18, 2008 in the landslide of tankir pahar. later, unsafe settlements were removed from many places, said divisional commissioner mn siddiq. but he admitted that there were settlements in several unsafe areas. a notice has been served on br to remove illegal settlements from the hills of north khulshi area adjacent to foy's lake, said sobhan. soon similar notice will be served on other entities, he added. bdnew --- experts call for close monitoring of h1n1 changes  hong kong, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - experts have called for close monitoring of how the new h1n1 flu virus evolves in coming months in the southern hemisphere as that may help answer questions that have eluded scientists for decades. in an article published in nature, the scientists from japan and the united states reviewed literature on the three most recent pandemics -- spanish flu of 1918-1919, asian flu of 1957 and hong kong flu of 1968 -- as well as skirmishes against the h5n1 bird flu virus in the past 10 years. "although much has been learned about influenza viruses, key questions still remain unanswered: for example, what factors determine interspecies transmission, reassortment and human-to-human transmission -- factors that have accounted for past pandemics and will be critical in the emergence of new pandemic viruses," they wrote. led by yoshihiro kawaoka at the university of tokyo's international research center for infectious diseases, the team recalled how the first mild wave in the spanish flu pandemic was followed by two deadly waves. therefore, watching how this new h1n1 virus evolves in coming months may shed light on what accompanying genetic changes need to take place for it to become more virulent or even more efficient in transmitting between humans, if these adaptations occur. "careful monitoring of the (h1n1) during the upcoming winter season in the southern hemisphere is of critical importance to detect more virulent variants, should they arise," they wrote. "from a scientific perspective, the opportunity to watch virus evolution in real time may provide us with invaluable information on the factors that determine pathogenicity and/or transmissibility." "these factors accounted for past pandemics and will be critical in the emergence of new pandemic viruses," they added. this new h1n1 virus contains genetic material from bird, swine and human flu viruses and appears to have a mortality rate of 0.2 percent, according to an earlier research report. this figure is slightly higher than the fatality rate for seasonal influenza viruses. the experts also warned that the global community was not well prepared for a pandemic, with insufficient antiviral drug stockpiles and slow production of vaccines --- australia pm urges calm, warns off student vigilantes  canberra, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - australia's prime minister kevin rudd called for calm and indian students led "vigilante" patrols on wednesday after a second night of protests in the wake of attacks on foreign students in sydney and melbourne. scores of indian students took to the streets of western sydney, leading to two police arrests, after attacks in both sydney and melbourne which have sparked diplomatic protests and fears of an international student exodus from australia. "it's unacceptable for anyone to commit an act of violence against any student of any ethnicity anywhere in australia," rudd told local radio. "it's equally unacceptable for so-called reprisal attacks and for so-called vigilante action as well. "i think everyone just needs to draw some breath on this and i think we need to see a greater atmosphere of general calm," rudd said. rudd made his appeal after indian students formed vigilante-like groups at train and bus stations in melbourne following a string of attacks in the city over the past 18 months which australian authorities insist have been crime-related. indian students believe the attacks have been "racist", warning of a culture of "curry bashings" in australia, where foreign students are the country's third biggest export earner, worth more than $12 billion. china's government last week joined india in raising concern about sporadic attacks on chinese students in recent years, urging australian authorities to ramp up security. in a bid to ease tensions, police in melbourne ordered groups of young indian men patrolling three suburban railway stations at st albans, thomastown and springvale to disband after they gathered to prevent more attacks on their countrymen. in sydney, around 70 people gathered in the western suburb of harris park, where indian community representatives claimed to have been attacked by ethnic lebanese-australian gangs, responding with baseball bats. police have warned that harris park is a dangerous area at night due to criminal gangs and that the attacks on indian students were purely opportunistic. indian community leaders have urged students to stay away from protest gatherings to avoid stoking tensions. australia's foreign minister stephen smith said it could take "some time" to bring the violence under control, while education experts have warned the damage to australia's international reputation as a safe study destination could last even longer. police in victoria state police said they were launching a fresh crackdown to restore order, building on increased patrols already announced. in sydney, greater numbers of police also patrolled the worst-affected suburbs. india's prime minister manmohan singh described the attacks in a speech to parliament as senseless violence, while foreign minister sm krishna joined rudd in calling for  --- abbas aide urges world shun netanyahu over speech  ramallah, west bank, june 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - world powers should isolate israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu after he unveiled tough terms for a middle east peace accord, an aide to palestinian president mahmoud abbas said on monday. in a major policy speech on sunday, netanyahu responded to weeks of pressure from washington by finally giving his endorsement -- with conditions -- to the establishment of a demilitarized palestinian state. palestinians were dismayed by his demand they first recognize israel as a jewish state and his failure to heed a call they and u.s. president barack obama have voiced to halt jewish settlement construction in the occupied west bank. "the international community should confront this policy, through which netanyahu wants to kill off any chance for peace," abbas adviser yasser abed rabbo told reuters. "they must isolate and confront this policy which netanyahu is adopting and exert pressure on him so that he adheres to international legitimacy and the road map," he said, referring to a u.s.-sponsored 2003 peace plan. netanyahu pledged to keep all of jerusalem as israel's capital -- defying palestinians' claim on the city -- and hedged on whether israel would ever remove west bank settlements. he ruled out the admission of palestinian refugees to israel proper and said abbas must impose his authority over the breakaway hamas islamists ruling the gaza strip. the address, in which netanyahu urged the palestinians to resume talks with israel immediately, was welcomed by the white house as "an important step forward" for implementing obama's peace vision. the european union called it "a step in the right direction." cantons palestinian negotiator saeb erekat said mediators should challenge netanyahu on whether he was prepared to tackle territorial issues such as borders, jerusalem and settlements. "netanyahu is talking about negotiations about cantons -- the canton of the state of palestine, with a flag and an anthem, a state without borders, without sovereignty, without a capital," erekat said. israeli national security adviser uzi arad told israel radio: "they (palestinians) are saying this because they noticed that previous (israeli) governments did not deal effectively, and did not set conditions in a categorical manner." but netanyahu's cabinet secretary, zvi hauser, described the speech as an opening move in what israel hoped would be discussions of a peace deal involving the wider arab world. "look, of course we must all distinguish between what is desirable and what is at hand. yesterday, the prime minister delineated what is desirable," hauser told israel's army radio. "as of this morning, we have to deal with what is at hand, and what is at hand is not just in our court. what is at hand is mainly in the other side's court." netanyahu's speech met circumspection across the political spectrum in israel, which has seen almost two decades of stop-start talks about a "two-state solution," a concept the right-wing likud party chief had long balked at endorsing. "welcome, mr prime minister, to the 20th century. the problem is, we're already in the 21st century," political commentator ben caspit wrote in the maariv newspaper. --- tehran rocked by protests, over 100 reformists arrested  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnws24.com/reuters) - thousands of protesters clashed with police after president mahmoud ahmadinejad won an election which his reformist challenger called a "dangerous charade." over 100 reformists, including mohammad reza khatami the brother of former president khatami, were arrested on saturday night, leading reformist mohammad ali abtahi told reuters on sunday. they were taken from their homes last night," said former vice president abtahi. he said more arrests were expected. the arrested reformists were members of iran's leading reformist party mosharekat. a judiciary spokesman said, they had not been arrested but were summoned and "warned not to increase tension." they were later released, he said. thousands of people clashed with police on saturday after the disputed election victory of president mahmoud ahmadinejad sparked the biggest protests in tehran since the 1979 islamic revolution. the protests were a rare direct challenge to iranian authorities. the result and its violent aftermath raised fresh questions about the direction of iranian policies at a time when us president barack obama wants to improve relations with iran. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei told iranians to respect ahmadinejad's victory, which upset expectations that reformist candidate mirhossein mousavi might win the race. interior minister sadeq mahsouli, an ahmadinejad ally, declared the president had been re-elected with 62.6 percent of the vote, against 33.7 percent for mousavi. iranian and western analysts said ahmadinejad's re-election would disappoint western powers aiming to persuade iran to halt a nuclear program they suspect is aimed at making bombs. mousavi complained of violations and vote-rigging -- allegations rejected by interior ministry officials. "i'm warning i will not surrender to this dangerous charade. the result of such performance by some officials will jeopardize the pillars of the islamic republic and will establish tyranny," mousavi said in a statement made available to reuters. after the result was announced, thousands of his supporters took to the streets, some chanting, "what happened to our vote?." others shouted anti-ahmadinejad slogans. "we are iranians too," and "mousavi is our president," they shouted. police beat protesters with batons as they spread out across the capital. small fires burned at roadsides. though the protests were small compared to the mass demonstrations that led to the 1979 islamic revolution, they were the most widespread in the city since then. khamenei, iran's top authority, told defeated candidates and their supporters to avoid "provocative behavior." "the chosen and respected president is the president of all the iranian nation and everyone, including yesterday's competitors, must unanimously support and help him," khamenei said in a statement read on state television. ahmadinejad, in a televised address to the nation, said the election had been "free and healthy." iranian and western analysts said ahmadinejad's re-election would disappoint western powers aiming to convince iran to halt a nuclear program they suspect is aimed at making bombs. us secretary of state hillary clinton said the united states was monitoring the outcome of the election closely and hoped the result reflected the will of the iranian people. on friday night, before official results emerged, mousavi had claimed to be the "definite winner." he said many people had been unable to vote and ballot papers were lacking. ahmadinejad draws most of his support from rural areas and poorer big city neighborhoods. mousavi enjoys strong backing in wealthier urban centers, especially among women and the y --- wtcc dispute to be probed  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)the home ministry has formed a three-member probe body to investigate friday's dispute over a meeting of the water transport coordination cell at agrabad in chittagong, a home ministry spokesperson said. "the home minister sahara khatun at a meeting on saturday morning has decided to form a probe body to investigate the wtcc conflict and asked the body to submit its report within seven days," home ministry public relations officer md shahinoor miah shahin told bdnews24.com on saturday. the wtcc began operations on friday after dropping mp and ccci president mohammed abdul latif from the post of adviser and convenor, leading to a 'scuffle' between the mp and police when he tried to force his way into the meeting. shipping minister afsarul amin and chittagong city corporation mayor abm mohiuddin chowdhury attended the launching programme. the wtcc was formed in 2005 in association with the coastal ship owners' association and bangladesh cargo owners' vessel owners' association. it was stipulated at the time that the chittagong chamber of commerce and industry president and senior most vice-president would hold the post of adviser and convenor respectively. but latif, awami league mp from chittagong-10, allegedly thrust himself into the post of both adviser and convenor on being elected ccci chief eight months back. the aggrieved ship owners sat with the shipping minister who on june 3 directed senior vice president of the chamber mohammed abdus salam to take the charge of convenor. ignoring the minister's directives, latif expressed his desire to retain the convenor's post and got related papers signed by the chamber directors. he decided to launch wtcc operations without intermediaries of the ship owners' association, while the latter went ahead with friday's meeting without the mp. around 10am on friday when latif, accompanied by some hundred supporters, attempted entering the wtcc office, the police stopped them and an altercation arose. rebuffed by the police, the mp reportedly manhandled both nirmalendu bikash chakravarti, an assistant police commissioner, and local police chief akm manjurul haque. latif, who sustained minor injuries, alleged, "shipping minister afsarul amin and chittagong mayor abm mohiuddin chowdhury set the police to stop me entering the wtcc office." the probe body, headed by additional secretary for home md golam hossain, includes deputy inspector general of chittagong police headquarters mainul rahman chowdhury and deputy secretary for home zakir hossain. bdne --- govt to probe tigers' t20 disaster  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)the government has said it will form a committee to explore the reasons behind the disastrous performance of the national cricket team in the icc world twenty20 in england. "we will look into the matter of bangladesh's losses in the twenty20 world cup," chittagong hill tracts affairs minister dipankar talukdar told parliament on wednesday, on behalf of the state minister for youth and sports, who was absent. "bangladesh are also due to play in the upcoming 2011 world cup, and the government will take the measures to keep the nation's honour up," talukdar said in reply to a query from awami league mp mostaq ahmed ruhi. bangladesh were miserably knocked out of the series after a six-wicket defeat to icc associate member ireland and a 25-run loss to defending champions india. a dejected team returned home wednesday morning after their disappointing campaign. ireland broke the tigers' hearts, handing them a comprehensive wicket defeat to dash their hopes of playing the super eights, a place bangladesh qualified for in the inaugural world twenty20 in south africa. bangladesh, who also went down against india in the first match of the series, were the first team to land in the host country and the first to catch the return flight home. they arrived at zia international airport minus australian coach jamie siddons, captain mohammad ashraful and all-rounder shakib al hasan. siddons returned to australia to accompany girlfriend kim, who is expected to give birth of their first child next week while ashraful and shakib stayed back in england for treatment. shakib had a pre-appointment with a doctor but ashraful surprisingly informed the team management that he needed to visit an eye specialist. vice captain mashrafee bin mortaza was left to face the heat from the national media on their return. asked the reasons behind the defeat against ireland, mashrafee's reply was simple. "we went down against ireland as we could not play better." "the batsmen did not click properly, which resulted in a top order slump and the team never recovered from that early pressure," said mashrafee. when asked about siddons' comment, that "our boys tend to do things their way a lot, they don't listen that well and it is time some pressure is put on them to listen, from the captain down", mashrafee said that he had no idea about that. but he remembered to give the well-worn statement after a disappointing performancehe promised that they would "learn from the mistakes and do better next time." bdnew --- south africa hold nerve to defeat west indies  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa held their nerve in the face of some dazzling stroke play from lendl simmons to defeat west indies by 20 runs in their twenty20 world cup second round match at the oval on saturday. simmons played with fluency and flair on both sides of the wicket as west indies launched a spirited assault on south africa's 183 for seven. but his dismissal for 77 from 50 deliveries with the score on 133 from the final ball of the 16th over signalled the beginning of the end for west indies. the last five wickets fell for 26 runs to leave west indies 163 for nine. left-arm pace bowler wayne parnell confirmed the fine impression he has made throughout the tournament, taking two wickets at the start of the west indies innings from four deliveries. they included west indies' captain chris gayle who was caught for five. the 19-year-old returned at the end to claim two further wickets and finish with the excellent figures of four for 13. south africa made a good start but lost their way after herschelle gibbs departed for 55 from 35 balls in the 15th over, including a huge six over wide long-on off simmons. with five overs to go, the south africans were handily placed for a run charge at 138 for three but jerome taylor, whose second over had gone for 16 runs, responded by taking three of the four wickets to fall to finish with three for --- attack on pakistan hotel fuels anger with taliban  peshawar, pakistan, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a plaque on the wall of the guard booth at the gate of the pearl continental hotel in the pakistani city of peshawar reads: "this hotel is protected by latest security system." that system failed late on tuesday night when militants forced their way through the gate and a suicide truck-bomber drove up to the hotel and set off his explosives bringing down a corner of the five-storey hotel. nine people were killed including two foreign un workers. rescuers were picking through the rubble looking for more victims on wednesday while heavy lifters were pulling mangled cars from the wreckage. peshawar has for thousands of years been a hub and resting point for a succession of invaders, traders and pilgrims who have tramped through the khyber pass, the gateway to afghanistan to the west of the city. it lies in a fertile valley bordered by peaks and has also long been a center for ethnic pashtun culture. but these days the mood is grim and anger with the taliban is seething. "our business has been ruined. if the situation continues like this i may move," said mumtaz askari, who owns a small book shop in the storyteller's bazaar in peshawar's old city. "our lives are so insecure. you leave home in the morning and don't know if you'll return in the evening. women can't go shopping and when children go to school you pray they'll come back safely," askari said. "eliminate them once and for all, they're enemies of humanity," he said of the taliban. kalimullah, an afghan working as a waiter in a nearby roadside cafe serving roasted goat and flat bread, said very few people were going out to eat. "i came here to work because there was peace but now it's the same as afghanistan," he said. "they're not muslims. a muslim wouldn't slaughter people like this. they're worse than the afghan taliban." sad, angry, worried the pearl continental, or pc as it's known, has for years been a favorite haunt of foreign aid workers, journalists and the odd tourist, plus well-heeled and powerful pakistanis. in the 1980s, leaders of afghanistan's holy warrior factions battling soviet occupiers in their homeland over the nearby border regularly held meetings and news conferences in the hotel. after the september 11, 2001, attacks on the united states journalists again flocked to the pc to cover the u.s.-led invasion of afghanistan over subsequent weeks. there has been no claim of responsibility but there is little doubt it was pakistani taliban or their allies who struck one of the city's landmarks. "people are sad, they are angry, they are worried," veteran peshawar journalist abdullah jan told reuters at his home, which is not far from the pc. the militants have stepped up attacks in cities since the army launched an offensive in april to clear the taliban from their bastion in the swat valley, to the northeast of peshawar. tuesday's blast was the latest in a series of deadly attacks in the city. the taliban occasionally prowl its outskirts, attacking convoys taking equipment and supplies to the us military in afghanistan through the khyber pass. "these incidents are not doing the taliban any good but definitely, it will get worse before it gets better, if it gets better," jan said. "it will get worse when the army goes into waziristan," he said, referring to a militant stronghold on the afghan border, to the southwest of peshawar, which authorities have said might be attacked after  --- researchers uncover how nanoparticles may damage lungs  hong kong, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - researchers in china appear to have uncovered how nanoparticles which are used in medicine for diagnosis and delivering drugs may cause lung damage. nanotechnology, or the science of the extremely tiny, is an important industry. one nanometer is one-billionth of a meter. apart from medicine, it is used in products like sporting goods, cosmetics, tires and electronics and has a projected annual market of around us$1 trillion by 2015. however, concerns are growing that it may have toxic effects, particularly to the lungs. but it has never been clear how the damage is caused. in an article published in the journal of molecular cell biology, the chinese experts said a class of nanoparticles used in medicine, ployamidoamine dendrimers (pamams), may cause lung damage by triggering a type of programed cell death known as autophagic cell death. in experiments, they observed how several types of pamams killed human lung cells but found no evidence that the cells were dying by apoptosis, a natural and common type of cell death. in a subsequent experiment in mice, they injected an autophagy inhibitor in mice and later exposed the rodents to nanoparticles and found that it "significantly ameliorated the lung damage and improved survival rates." "this provides us with a promising lead for developing strategies to prevent lung damage caused by nanoparticles," said the leader of the team, chengyu jiang, a molecular biologist at the chinese academy of medical sciences in beijing. scientists hope nanoparticles will be able to improve the effectiveness of drugs and gene therapy by carrying them to the right place in the body and by targeting specific tissues, regulating the release of drugs and reducing damage to healthy tis --- nato backs kosovo force cut, studies more  brussels, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - nato nations agreed on thursday to cut their 10-year-old peacekeeping operation in kosovo from around 14,000 troops to 10,000 in coming months, with further reductions planned if security allows. kosovo defied serbia last year by declaring independence from belgrade and was backed by many western powers. nato armies, stretched by conflicts in iraq and afghanistan and with the global economic crisis hitting military budgets, have long been looking to wind down their presence in kosovo. "the principle has been agreed," nato secretary-general jaap de hoop scheffer told a news conference of an agreement by nato defense ministers at talks in brussels. he said the alliance had yet to fix a firm date for the cut, but added: "that date might well be january 1 (2010)." earlier, u.s. defense secretary robert gates insisted that any reduction in nato presence from predominantly ethnic albanian kosovo should not leave existing troops exposed. "my concern is that we do this in an organized and coherent fashion as an alliance, and not countries leaving unilaterally," he told reporters on board a plane from the dutch city of maastricht to the nato meeting. asked whether any troop withdrawals in kosovo would free up troops for the alliance's battle against taliban insurgents in afghanistan, gates said: "i would certainly hope so." but he added: "i'm not going to bet the ranch on it." separately, a us official said nato's supreme allied commander europe john craddock had put forward a plan that envisaged subsequently reducing the kfor force to 6,500 and then 2,500 if security conditions allows. "we want to do it in a way that is stabilizing. there's no timeline, this is a conditions-based approach," said the official, who requested anonymity. however a nato diplomat who also requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the discussions, said the plan was to complete the reduction to 2,500 troops within two years. budget cuts kfor has been in kosovo since 1999 under a united nations mandate after a nato bombing campaign to drive out serb forces. it can have up to 15,000 troops in kosovo at any time but the level now is around 14,000, nato officials said. there had been wide fears in the west that kosovo's move toward independence in january 2008 could increase tensions and fuel violence between its ethnic albanian majority and serb minority, or reignite dormant tensions in the wider balkans. those fears have largely proved unfounded and a mission review conducted for nato found the security situation had improved enough for the initial reduction to 10,000. "all steps after that will have to be evaluated at a political level," german defense minister franz josef jung, whose country has some 2,200 troops in the nato force, told reporters as he arrived for the meeting. the global economic and financial crisis has forced governments around the world to run higher public deficits and sharpened the appetite for spending cuts. the relative calm in kosovo has made peacekeeping there a prime target for such cuts. "it is just prudent good management, and i think it's very sensible at a time of economic difficulty," said one diplomat. kosovo's independence is recognized by 60 countries including the united states and most eu member states. serbia and russia, a permanent security council member with veto rights, have said they will not recognize an independent ko --- germany ready to lift afghan troop threshold-report  berlin, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - germany is preparing to raise its potential troop contingent in afghanistan by up to 300 to assist airborne surveillance operations in the country, a german magazine reported on saturday. germany has about 3,800 troops in afghanistan and there is a parlimentary mandate to send a total of 4,500 as part of the nato mission. weekly der spiegel said the bundestag lower house of parliament would in early july give approval for up to 300 additional troops to be sent to afghanistan for deployment with nato's airborne warning and control system (awac) aircraft. the government had previously said it expected about 100 troops to be sent to assist the surveillance mission, which nato defence ministers approved on friday. the defence ministry declined to comment on the report. germany and other european countries have been under pressure from the united states to send more troops to afghanistan, though many have been reluctant, citing public opposition to greater involvement in the country --- govt urges int'l help for aila victims  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the government has for the first time called for international help to rehabilitate the victims of cyclone aila. food minister abdur razzak on thursday urged development partners and ngos at a meeting on post-aila rehabilitation activities at his office to come out with assistance. he said the government had earlier not asked for international help because it was carrying on with the initial relief activities on its own. he thanked the ngos working on their own to help the victims of aila and different calamities. he was informed of the ngo activities in the aftermaths of aila. these include normalising the lives of the affected people by building house and bringing them back to their old professions, building cyclone shelter centres in the vulnerable areas, eliminating salinity from the coastal areas, setting up water purifying plants and constructing barracks for the poor. the ngo affairs bureau has been tasked with gathering information on these activities and informing the disaster management bureau and the deputy commissioners who will coordinate the activities. food secretary mokhlesur rahman presided over the meeting attended by representatives from the usaid, muslim aid, wfp, idb, brac and karitas. b --- govt employees' pay up from july  dhaka jun 11 (bdnews24.com)public employees will get enhanced pay and perks from next month in line with the pay commission recommendations, the finance minister said in his budget speech thursday. those who had gone on lpr since july 1 last year will also get the benefits, he said. "we would like to see improved living standards and better working conditions of government officials and we would like to provide them with opportunities to live honest and dignified life," muhith said. "i am pleased to inform that the pay commission appointed by the caretaker government has recently submitted their report with recommendations to make the pay structure of the government officials consistent with their living standards. "considering the resource position of the government we are analysing those recommendations and we intend to implement them in phases from july 2009. "those government officials who proceeded on lpr from july 1, 2008, will also be entitled to receive benefits arising from the change in the pay structur --- india pm and zardari may meet at russia sco summit  yekaterinburg, russia, jun 15 (reuters) -indian prime minister manmohan singh and pakistani president asif ali zardari are likely to meet this week at a summit of asian states in russia where iran's president could make his first international appearance since friday's disputed election. a meeting between singh and zardari -- the first since last november's attack on mumbai -- could help to break the ice between the two nuclear-armed powers. but it was unclear whether they would hold a full bilateral discussion or simply take part in a wider meeting of members of the shanghai cooperation organisation and observer nations. the sco groups russia, china and the ex-soviet central asian republics of kazakhstan, uzbekistan, tajikistan and kyrgyzstan. the leaders of afghanistan, pakistan, india and iran, whose states have observer status, were also expected at the summit in the urals city of yekaterinburg. after protests in tehran against his disputed election victory, iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad is likely to be eager to get a seal of approval for the vote. russian president dmitry medvedev is likely to have a separate meeting with ahmadinejad that will focus on bilateral ties and iran's nuclear programme, a kremlin source said. sco leaders meet for dinner with medvedev on monday and some observer nations will also attend. on tuesday, a fuller meeting of sco leaders and observer nations will take place. north korea and afghanistan are likely to be top themes at the sco meeting, which will be attended by chinese president hu jintao, seen as the big power leader with the most clout in pyongyang. when asked by reporters if north korea would be raised, the kremlin's top foreign policy adviser, sergei prikhodko said: "i am sure this theme will be discussed at the sco summit." "the provocative actions are making us think about what the decision-making system is there in north korea (and) how it may react to the international sanctions," he said. north korea has raised tensions in the past months by test-firing missiles, restarting a plant to produce arms-grade plutonium and holding a may 25 nuclear test, which put it closer to having a working nuclear bomb. brazil, russia, india and china will hold a separate bric summit on tuesday after the sco meeting --- spain expected to continue run in south africa  johannsburg, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuter) - the confederations cup kicks off in south africa on sunday and offers spain a chance to build on a 32-match unbeaten run and the hosts an opportunity to test their credentials ahead of next year's world cup finals. both sides are in group a action on the first day with spain facing oceania nations cup winners new zealand in rustenburg after south africa open the eight-team tournament against asian champions iraq in johannesburg. while the spanish will be hoping to test their credentials as a possible world cup winner with a 14th straight triumph, south africa know their match is the first step in a stiff examination of how competitive they will be when the world arrives in 2010. "bafana bafana" have been far from convincing in recent years and the prospect of a poor run at next year's tournament is seen as potentially damaging to the event. "drawing or losing is not an option. we need three points to build added confidence, not just in the squad but among our fans," captain aaron mokoena told reporters on thursday. "we are aware of the pressure on us and we are ready to meet those challenges." scheduled to face iraq and then new zealand in their opening matches, south africa were initially confident of advancing to the semi-finals but have since tempered their gusto after solid midweek performances by their opponents. iraq impressed in a 1-1 draw with poland in a warm-up game in cape town on tuesday while new zealand scored three times before losing 4-3 to world champions italy in pretoria a day later. "we underestimate them at our peril. there is no way we are going to do that," mokoena added. new zealand's strength at set pieces caught italy napping but spain are expected to be better prepared for the all whites at the royal bafokeng sports palace, roughly 180km northwest of johannesburg. favourites tag a 6-0 warm-up win over azerbaijan on tuesday reaffirmed the spain's status as favourites at the two-week tournament. "we are not really all that bothered about records," defender carlos puyol told reporters on thursday. "we play to win and if we set records at the same time so much the better." "we earned the right to be favourites but we have to take it a step at a time. we want to continue, to keep up our confidence but we must carry on working hard," the barcelona captain added. spain's main competition for the trophy comes from brazil and italy, who play their first group b matches on monday. holders brazil open against egypt in bloemfontein while italy line up against the united states a few hours later in pretoria. the final is in johannesburg on june 28 --- three suitors emerge for boston globe: report  new york, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - three boston businessmen, including a member of the family that used to own the boston globe, have emerged as suitors for the 137-year-old daily newspaper that the new york times co is trying to sell, the globe reported on friday. the three are stephen pagliuca, a managing director at boston private equity company bain capital and co-owner of the boston celtics basketball team; former advertising executive jack connors, and stephen taylor, a former globe executive and member of the family that sold the globe to the times co for $1.1 billion in 1993. the boston globe's story comes a day after it reported that the times co hired goldman sachs to try to sell the money-losing paper. the times co also is trying to sell its interest in the holding company that owns the boston red sox baseball team and, according to the globe, is willing to part with all of its assets in massachusetts -- a state that has proven to be a financial quagmire for the times. taylor, who lectures about the economics of media and financing at yale university and runs a small private investment firm called densefog group llc, declined to comment. pagliuca and connors did not immediately respond to requests for comment. pagliuca, connors and taylor are in various stages of reviewing the globe's finances and getting investors to join their groups, the globe reported, but added that it does not know if they formally will bid for the paper. connors in particular has not decided if he will proceed, the globe said, citing a source familiar with his thinking. a grinding slow-moving dispute between the times and its largest union might delay the globe sale because some potential bidders do not want to inherit a fight, the paper reported. the globe is set to record an $85 million operating loss this year and the times co has pressed its unions to come up with $20 million in cost cuts. the globe's biggest union, the boston newspaper guild, rejected the paper's plan for pay cuts and other concessions to save $10 million. the times responded by cutting guild members' pay by 23 percent. the union has appealed this decision to the national labor relations board, a federal government body that plans to hold a hearing on the situation next  --- power and energy funding up 48pc  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the government has allocated tk 4,310 crore to the power and energy sector in the proposed budget for fy 2009-10, a 48 percent jump on last fiscal year's revised budget, in a desperate bid to rev up the energy-starved growth engine. "our development efforts are severely constrained by the dismal state of the energy and power sector," hfnance minister abul mal abdul muhith told parliament on thursday in his budget speech. he said prime minister sheikh hasina's new administration was considering setting up a government-financed 1,000 mw nuclear power project at roopur. "only 45 percent of our entire population has access to power. currently, our per capita power consumption is only 172 kwh, which is 325 kwh in sri lanka, 408 kwh in pakistan and 665 kwh in india," the minister said. "at present, our average power demand is about 5,000 mw, against which as of now the existing power plants can only generate 3800 mw of electricity." "we are determined to take appropriate steps to increase power generation assuming its demand to be 20,000 mw by 2021." in 2008, there had been an additional power generation of 307 mw in the private sector. in 2009, 500 mw of additional power will be generated through four projects under the public sector and 440 mw will be added to the national grid from 11 projects under the private sector. "if we go ahead as planned, we hope that by 2013, 2,810 mw of power will be produced through 13 projects under public sector and another 1,350 mw, under 3 projects of private sector," muhit hsaid. "besides, we are continuing dialogue with our neighbouring countries to import power for mitigating the power crisis on a short term basis." the minister said the government took up a tk. 105 crore project to produce energy-saving bulbs to save 350 mw electricity. "additional 837 kilometres of power grid line, 17 sub-stations and 15,000 kilometres of distribution line will be constructed." "the gas reserve in the country is depleting. at present, the proven reserve of gas is 7.3 tcf while the probable reserve is 5.5 tcf." "it is, therefore, important to take up the task of on-shore and off-shore exploration to increase the gas reserve." the government was mulling over a gas development fund to enhance the capacity of bapex for exploration of oil and gas and an energy and coal policy is nearing finalisation, the finance minister said. --- tehran rocked by protests, over 100 arrested  tehran sun jun 14, (bdnws24.com/reuters) - thousands of protesters clashed with police after president mahmoud ahmadinejad won an election which his reformist challenger called a "dangerous charade." over 100 reformists, including mohammad reza khatami the brother of former president khatami, were arrested on saturday night, leading reformist mohammad ali abtahi told reuters on sunday. they were taken from their homes last night," said former vice president abtahi. he said more arrests were expected. the arrested reformists were members of iran's leading reformist party mosharekat. thousands of people clashed with police on saturday after the disputed election victory of president mahmoud ahmadinejad sparked the biggest protests in tehran since the 1979 islamic revolution. the protests were a rare direct challenge to iranian authorities. the result and its violent aftermath raised fresh questions about the direction of iranian policies at a time when us president barack obama wants to improve relations with iran. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei told iranians to respect ahmadinejad's victory, which upset expectations that reformist candidate mirhossein mousavi might win the race. interior minister sadeq mahsouli, an ahmadinejad ally, declared the president had been re-elected with 62.6 percent of the vote, against 33.7 percent for mousavi. mousavi complained of violations and vote-rigging -- allegations rejected by interior ministry officials. "i'm warning i will not surrender to this dangerous charade. the result of such performance by some officials will jeopardize the pillars of the islamic republic and will establish tyranny," mousavi said in a statement made available to reuters. after the result was announced, thousands of his supporters took to the streets, some chanting, "what happened to our vote?." others shouted anti-ahmadinejad slogans. "we are iranians too," and "mousavi is our president," they shouted. police beat protesters with batons as they spread out across the capital. small fires burned at roadsides. though the protests were small compared to the mass demonstrations that led to the 1979 islamic revolution, they were the most widespread in the city since then. khamenei, iran's top authority, told defeated candidates and their supporters to avoid "provocative behavior." "the chosen and respected president is the president of all the iranian nation and everyone, including yesterday's competitors, must unanimously support and help him," khamenei said in a statement read on state television. ahmadinejad, in a televised address to the nation, said the election had been "free and healthy." iranian and western analysts said ahmadinejad's re-election would disappoint western powers aiming to convince iran to halt a nuclear program they suspect is aimed at making bombs. us secretary of state hillary clinton said the united states was monitoring the outcome of the election closely and hoped the result reflected the will of the iranian people. on friday night, before official results emerged, mousavi had claimed to be the "definite winner." he said many people had been unable to vote and ballot papers were lacking. ahmadinejad draws most of his support from rural areas and poorer big city neighborhoods. mousavi enjoys strong backing in wealthier urban centers, especially among women and the y --- ahmadinejad calls iran vote clean, derides protests  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranian police again clashed on sunday with people protesting in tehran against the re-election of hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad, who said in a victory news conference that the vote had been clean. supporters of defeated moderate mirhossein mousavi, who has dismissed ahmadinejad's victory in friday's election as a "dangerous charade," gathered in the city center, chanted his name and threw stones at police, a reuters witness said. police on motorcycles drove through the crowd to disperse the protesters. at least one person, a woman, was injured. police briefly detained journalists filming the violence. ahmadinejad consigned iran's nuclear dispute to the past, signaling no nuclear policy change in his second term, and warned that any country that attacked his own would regret it. "who dares to attack iran? who even dares to think about it?" he said, in response to a question. iran's refusal to halt nuclear work the west suspects is aimed at making bombs, a charge tehran denies, has sparked talk of possible u.s. or israeli strikes on its nuclear sites. ahmadinejad described the election as "clean and healthy," dismissing complaints by defeated candidates as sour grapes. "they may be upset by their failure," he said. "they spent lot of money to make propaganda (and) expected to win so it is natural they are disappointed and upset." the unrest that has rocked tehran and several other cities since official results were declared on saturday is the sharpest expression of discontent against iran's leadership for years. police have detained more than 100 reformers, including the brother of former president mohammad khatami, a leading reformer said on sunday. a police official confirmed some detentions. ahmadinejad was planning celebrations in the capital later on sunday. his unexpectedly overwhelming victory and its violent aftermath raised fresh questions about how iran will respond to u.s. president barack obama's diplomatic overtures. analysts said the election result would disappoint western powers trying to convince the world's fifth biggest oil exporter to halt sensitive nuclear work. obama had urged iran's leadership "to unclench its fist" for a new start in relations. french concern french foreign minister bernard kouchner voiced concern about events in iran after the election, saying "brutal" repression of opponents was closing the door to dialogue. "brutality and never-ending military development will not bring any solutions," kouchner said in paris. mohammad ali abtahi, who served as a vice president under khatami, told reuters the former president's brother, mohammad reza khatami, was among more than 100 members of iran's biggest reformist party, mosharekat, who were held on saturday. "there are reports a political party was involved in yesterday's incidents. some of them have been arrested," iran's deputy police chief ahmed reza radan was quoted by the fars news agency as saying. he denied khatami was among them. mousavi's wife, zahra rahnavard, denied reports that her husband had been detained or put under house arrest. "he is following the issue of the election. he says he is with the people and beside them," she told reuters. "the iranian people voted to change ahmadinejad, but this vote became a vote to solidify ahmadinejad. people are tired of dictatorship," said rahnavard, who took a high-profile public role in her husband's election campaign, which drew tens of thousands of supporters onto the streets of tehran. "people are tired of not having freedom of expression, of high inflation, and adventurism in foreign relations. that is why they wanted to change ahmadinejad," she said. an aide to rahnavard said she had tried to speak at tehran university on sunday, but had been prevented. mousavi has rejected ahmadinejad's victory, saying it had been achieved by vote-rigging that would "jeopardize the pillars of the islamic republic and will establish tyranny." interior ministry officials have rejected accusations of fraud and supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei, iran's top authority, has called on iranians to back their president. power struggle the anti-ahmadinejad camp was "taken by surprise and is scrambling for a plan," according to trita parsi, director of the washington-based national iranian american council. "increasingly, given their failure to get khamenei to intervene, their only option seems to be to directly challenge -- or threaten to challenge -- the supreme leader," he wrote. a senior western diplomat in tehran said he believed the authorities would soon subdue the street unrest, but said ahmadinejad's re-election battle had exposed a polarizing power struggle between radicals and moderate conservatives which could affect the islamic republic's long-term stability. "there is turbulence in the whole system," he added. protests also broke out on saturday in the cities of tabriz, orumieh, hamedan and rasht, where crowds chanted for mousavi. in isfahan, police made arrests after students at sanati university set equipment and furniture on fire, a witness said. in tehran, municipality spokesman mohammad hadi ayazi said protesters had torched seven buses on saturday, destroyed 60 rubbish bins and set several banks on  --- tk 700 crore for climate change risk  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)  the awami league government in its maiden budget has allocated tk 700 crore to manage climate change risk. japan international cooperation agency (jica) has pledged tk 490 crore as budgetary support during the next three years to cope with the environment-related disasters, muhith said in his budget speech in parliament on thursday. "japan has proposed to contribute tk. 700 crore from their japan debt cancellation fund (jdcf) facility in managing the risk due to climate change." finance minister said to counter the impending disaster we need much larger fund. i, therefore, propose an allocation of tk. 700 crore in fy 2009-10 towards that fund. he said, as a basic strategy, the government may put forward the demand to establish rights to obtaining the status of global citizen for the affected people. the creation of a multi-donor trust fund with support from donors is in progress. the proposed fund received a commitment of us$ 97.9 million from the governments of uk and denmark, he added. "a special initiative will shortly be taken to save the buriganga from pollution." "adequate arrangements are not available in various industrial sites to prevent environment pollution. we want the management of industrial units to take appropriate measures to properly dispose toxic industrial waste." "we will provide loans to them on easy term on this purpose. but they have to complete this task within stipulated time. "no new industrial units will be allowed to be set up in the area without putting in place an appropriate waste disposal system. at the same time, all hospital authorities will also take similar measures for disposing their clinical waste." "there is a plan to bring 20 percent of our land under afforestation programmes by 2015 to attain self-sufficiency in forest resources. we have a target to bring 4,314 hectares of land under afforestation programme, create strip gardens over an area of 2,355 kilometres and plant 23 lakh saplings." a development programme has been taken up for maintaining ecological balance and biodiversity in sudarban area at a cost of tk. 650 crore, he said. total allocation for environment and forest ministry is tk. 278 crore and it is tk. 8882 for food and disaster management. --- netanyahu to outline israel's policies in speech  jerusalem, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu will deliver a major policy speech on sunday that officials say will outline his vision of how to advance the peace process with the palestinians and the arab world. israel faces pressure from its main ally, the united states, to end settlement-building and embrace palestinian statehood. "the prime minister intends to articulate a clear view as to how he wants to move forward in the peace process with the palestinians," said netanyahu's spokesman mark regev. "his vision is to move forward towards a historic reconciliation, and it is clear that all parties must play a role if this process is to succeed," regev said, referring to arab countries in the region. netanyahu is at odds with us president barack obama over washington's demand to halt israeli settlement expansion in the occupied west bank and has not endorsed the creation of a palestinian state, a cornerstone of us middle east policy. netanyahu's three-month-old government has said construction in existing jewish settlements would continue to accommodate growing families. obama has called for a total freeze. the israeli leader will also discuss iran, officials said, whose nuclear aspirations the jewish state regards as an existential threat. newly re-elected iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad has called for israel to be wiped off the map. iran denies seeking nuclear weapons and has so far shrugged off western pressure to freeze its nuclear programme. road map netanyahu is bound by past israeli agreements, which include a 2003 peace "road map" that sets out conditions to establish a palestinian state, and has called for the immediate resumption of stalled peace talks. but he has proposed shifting focus in talks with the palestinians from tough territorial issues to a "triple-track" that improves economic, security and political relations. palestinian president mahmoud abbas has said negotiations would be useless unless netanyahu committed to statehood and a settlement freeze. ofir akonis, a lawmaker in netanyahu's likud party and a former aide, said the prime minister will likely call on abbas to resume immediate negotiations and speak in depth on iran. "i don't think that netanyahu will use the expression 'two states for two people'," akonis said on israel radio, referring to the so-called two-state solution to the decades-old israeli-palestinian conflict the west is pushing for. netanyahu briefed us envoy george mitchell and other top diplomats this week on his planned speech. but the steps which netanyahu outlined to mitchell were "not adequate" to satisfy washington, a us official told a meeting of the so-called quartet of middle east mediators. netanyahu met israeli president shimon peres late on saturday to discuss the drafting of the speech --- iaquinta double spares italian blushes against kiwis  pretoria, south africa, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - world champions italy had to come from behind three times to beat new zealand 4-3 in a breathless warm-up for the confederations cup on wednesday. vicenzo iaquinta struck twice in the second half to spare italian blushes against the 82nd-ranked team in world football. italy started with an experimental line-up but were stunned into bringing on more established players to turn things around. shane smeltz opened the scoring for new zealand in the 13th minute before alberto gilardino headed in fabio quagliarella's chip for the first equaliser. chris killen headed in from a corner for 2-1 before gilardino got his second. killen won and converted a penalty in the 57th minute as new zealand again took the lead and that prompted marcello lippi to send on five more experienced players in quick succession. iaquinta's first came after a defence-splitting pass from andrea pirlo and the second when he reacted fastest after new zealand goalkeeper glen moss had failed to hold riccardo montolivo's shot. new zealand play their first game of the confederations cup against european champions spain on sunday in group a while italy's opener is against the united states in group b on monday --- gm sale of saab looms as koenigsegg steps up  stockholm, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - general motors is close to selling loss-making swedish unit saab after tiny supercar maker koenigsegg agreed to ride to the rescue, a source familiar with the talks told reuters. a deal would put a company of less than 50 employees turning out a handful of $1 million supercars in charge of saab, which produces that many family cars every hour. sweden would also likely join other governments backing swift rescues of their biggest car companies with state guarantees to help save jobs and one of the country's biggest brand names. koenigsegg, whose slinky supercars can top 400 km/h (240 mph) and rank in forbes magazine's list of the world's 10 most beautiful cars, is backed by norwegian investors, a source told reuters on thursday. the two sides have signed a letter of intent and financing has been agreed, leaving only minor issues to be resolved, the source said. saab said on its website on friday that new ownership would be finalized in the early summer and swedish television reported that a preliminary deal was now with the u.s. treasury department with further information expected to be released next week. surprising partners tough times are producing some surprising partnerships, including gm's tentative deal this month to sell hummer, the expensive, gas-guzzling vehicle of choice for musicians and movie stars, to sichuan tengzhong, a chinese company that makes cement mixers. italian maker fiat, which quit the u.s. market in 1983, is set to return under a new partnership with chrysler while parts maker magna international is in talks to buy gm's european operations centred on germany's opel. "i'm concerned it doesn't have the scale or expertise to exist as a standalone business," said nomura analyst michael tyndall regarding koenigsegg. saab has not posted a profit in a decade. "i struggle to see how smaller brands can exist as standalone operations -- the industry doesn't have a great track record on this," said tyndall. the global recession has slashed demand for cars and sent u.s. giants gm and chrysler into bankruptcy, leaving ford as the only one of the so-called big three not needing government aid. koenigsegg hails from the other end of the automotive spectrum, a tiny firm operating out of an aircraft hangar set up in 1994 by young entrepreneur christian von koenigsegg who pocketed some of his fortune selling frozen chickens. saab's future could see it turn into a much smaller, niche player, according to mikael wickelgren, a vehicle expert lecturer at the university of skovde, sweden.. "saab probably would move toward more specialised, niche cars for a smaller customer base," said wickelgren. "it is a strategy that one has actually heard saab speak of, but which has been difficult to achieve in a gm context. gm only thinks about volumes." saab produced nearly 100,000 cars off last year, about 1 percent of gm's global output. gm put the company up for sale earlier this year and held talks with a number of potential buyers, including fiat and chinese automakers. talks narrowed to two or three unnamed bidders in recent w --- cia chief believes cheney almost wants us attacked  washington, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - cia director leon panetta says it's almost as if former vice president dick cheney would like to see another attack on the united states to prove he is right in criticizing president barack obama for abandoning the "harsh interrogation" of terrorism suspects. "i think he smells some blood in the water on the national security issue," panetta said in an interview published in the new yorker magazine's june 22 issue. "it's almost, a little bit, gallows politics. when you read behind it, it's almost as if he's wishing that this country would be attacked again, in order to make his point." cheney, who was a key advocate in the bush administration of controversial interrogation methods such as waterboarding, has become as a leading republican critic of obama's ban on harsh interrogations and his plan to shut the us military prison at guantanamo bay, cuba. in a blistering may 21 speech, cheney said obama's reversal of bush-era policies were "unwise in the extreme" that would make the american people less safe. panetta called cheney's actions "dangerous politics." he told the new yorker he had favored the creation of an independent truth commission to look into the detainee polices of former president george w. bush. but the idea died in april when obama decided such a panel could be seen as politically vindictive --- nato ministers back shake-up in us afghan command  brussels, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - nato ministers have backed a us shake-up of military command in afghanistan based on a model used in iraq, as well as plans to step up training of afghan security forces, a nato spokesman said on friday. washington has named us army general stanley mcchrystal to overall command of the international operation in afghanistan, with a deputy to run day-to-day military operations and another to oversee training. the structure draws heavily on us experience in iraq. nato spokesman james appathurai said defense ministers from the 28-nation nato military alliance backed the plan at a meeting in brussels. "details will have to be now worked out and consulted amongst allies exactly how it will be implemented, but the general outlines have been agreed in principle," he said. lieutenant-general david rodriguez, a former us and nato commander in eastern afghanistan who now serves as defense secretary robert gates' right-hand military man, will effectively run day-to-day war operations. this will leave mcchrystal, a workaholic veteran of the secretive world of special operations who is currently director of the pentagon's joint staff, to focus on strategy and other tasks such as liaising with afghan and nato leaders and pushing forward the training of afghan security forces. afghanistan obama's top priority the decision last month to dismiss us army general david mckiernan as the top commander in afghanistan and, effectively, replace him with not one but two highly rated generals reflects a sense of urgency in the obama administration about the war. with insurgent violence on the rise, us officials have acknowledged they are not winning in afghanistan and the administration has declared the war its top military priority. appathurai said the command shake-up was needed given the big surge in troop numbers announced by obama. the united states has increased its military presence to 56,000 troops, from about 32,000 in late 2008, and expects a rise to some 68,000 by autumn. this is in addition to some 33,000 troops from nato and partner countries. washington and its allies are also stepping up efforts to build up the afghan army and police to more than 200,000 personnel. nato secretary-general jaap de hoop scheffer said the international effort in afghanistan faced "real challenges," citing august 20 presidential elections, insurgent violence, and slow progress in reconstruction and development efforts. "meeting them will not be easy," he told the nato meeting, at which mcchrystal was presented. us officials have urged european states to deliver on pledges to step up commitments to the afghan effort and be prepared to do more, by sending more troops, funds, or experts. appathurai said allies were expected to agree to a long-running call for the deployment of nato airborne warning and control (awac) aircraft to afghanistan to help deal with increased air traffic, something that has been held up by disputes over who should pay and how awacs should be employed. he said the decision could mean three to four of the high-tech aircraft would be deployed. many european states have been reluctant to make major new commitments to the war, saying their forces are overstretched and citing public opposition to greater involve --- booters' conditioning camp now from june 21  dhaka, june 7 (bdnews24.com)  the conditioning camp of the national booters in a bid to raise their power and stamina has been deferred by six days and will now get underway on june 21 instead of june 15 in cox's bazar. "we have deferred the camp by six days because of the unavailability of the bksp dormitory as well as few players' participation in the champions club cup," said bff vice-president badal roy on thursday. he added that after three weeks' camp in cox's bazar the players were supposed to get training at the bksp, but the bksp dormitory would be available after june 15. bangladesh's brazilian coach edson silva dido has already picked 30 players for the saff championship in december as well as the 2010 south asian games. bd --- ahmadinejad says election rivals use hitler tactics  tehran, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's president mahmoud ahmadinejad accused his election rivals on wednesday of adopting smear tactics used by germany's dictator adolf hitler and said they could face jail for insulting him. ahmadinejad was speaking at a rally in tehran on the final day of an increasingly bitter and hard-fought election campaign, in which he faces a growing challenge from moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi. mousavi and the two other candidates say ahmadinejad has lied about the state of the economy which is suffering from high inflation and a fall in oil revenues from last year's record levels. ahmadinejad said his rivals had broken laws against insulting the president. "no one has the right to insult the president, and they did it. and this is a crime. the person who insulted the president should be punished, and the punishment is jail," he told supporters outside tehran's sharif university. "such insults and accusations against the government are a return to hitler's methods, to repeat lies and accusations ... until everyone believes those lies," ahmadinejad said. insulting senior officials, including the president, is a crime in iran carrying a maximum two-year jail sentence. the hardline president has accused mousavi's supporters, including former president akbar hashemi rafsanjani, of corruption. rafsanjani responded angrily, calling on the islamic republic's supreme leader to rein in ahmadinejad. mousavi accuses ahmadinejad of isolating iran with his vitriolic attacks on the united states, his combative line on iran's nuclear policy and his questioning of the holocaust. he advocates easing nuclear tensions, while rejecting demands that tehran halt nuclear work which the west fears could be used to make bombs. iran, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter, says its nuclear program is peaceful. friday's election will not change tehran's nuclear policy, which is decided by the supreme leader, ayatollah ali khamenei, but a victory for mousavi could herald a less confrontational relationship with the west. iran's velvet revolution? the angry election exchanges have reverberated in the shi'ite holy city of qom, a main religious center in the islamic republic, where 14 clerics expressed "deep concern and regret" that iran's image had been harmed by the political mud slinging. another group said on wednesday that rafsanjani would be responsible if the tension escalated into violence. the three-week election campaign has seen rising support for mousavi, who had been out of the political spotlight since serving as prime minister during the 1980-88 war with iraq. in affluent northern tehran his supporters have flooded the streets at night, dressed in his green campaign colors and waving posters, flags and green balloons. mousavi sympathizers increasingly believe he could claim victory in the election. saeed laylaz, editor of business daily sarmayeh, said his travels across iran in the last two months suggested mousavi had gained support of more than 50 percent of voters, enough to triumph on friday without the need of a second round of voting. "if we have a free election, he may win at the first round," he said. "what's happening in iran now is a colorful velvet revolution." but the election outcome remains unpredictable. the relatively unknown ahmadinejad surprised everyone with his victory four years ago, and he has enjoyed the support of khamenei throughout his presidency. a european envoy in tehran said he still expected the incumbent to win. "(it will be) more of the same," he said. and analysts caution that even if mousavi were to defeat ahmadinejad, there would be no sudden change in iran's relations with the west. "things in iran move slowly. it would mark a significant change, but it wouldn't reflect regime change," said ali ansari of the university of st .andrews in scotland. "but they would build on the momentum developed by (reformist former president mohammad) khatami. that trajectory would conti --- reward doubled to tk 1 lakh to net last bdr fugitives  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  the reward money offered for information leading to capture of border guards, who remain fugitive following the bdr mutiny in february, has been doubled to tk 1 lakh, a home ministry spokesperson said on sunday. "the information provider will be given tk 1 lakh and his identity will be kept secret," home ministry public relation officer md shahenur mia shahin told bdnews24.com. the home ministry originally announced a reward of tk 50,000 in april. thousands of border guards, guilty and innocent among them, fled the peelkhana headquarters in the chaos of the bloody feb 25-26 mutiny that left at least 70 people dead, mostly army officers deputed to the border force. many also fled battalions and camps after unrest in other parts of the country. while most ranks reported back to duty in the days that followed, authorities launched 'operation rebel hunt' to round up an estimated 1,000 who were still on the run in march. most of the fugitives were arrested or surrendered in the following weeks, while lists of those still missing have been sent to police stations, airports and border posts, say officials. bdr authorities published its latest list last month, of 25 bdr men that were still fugitive up to may 19. on may 24, however, the family of sepoy md abdus samad of 44 rifles battalion, one of those listed, said he was already in jail. a case was filed on feb 28, in the wake of the mutiny, accusing over a thousand bdr men. over 1,100 border guards have been arrested to date in connection with the case. bd --- mitchell says no mideast peace at lebanon expense  beirut, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us envoy george mitchell said on friday a middle east peace agreement would not come at lebanon's expense and praised this week's election as an "important milestone" for the country. mitchell, who has lebanese roots, is on a tour that has taken him to israel, the west bank, egypt and jordan as part of us president barack obama's arab-israeli peace push. he is due to travel to syria later on friday. washington is seeking a swift renewal of israeli-palestinian peace talks as well as a comprehensive peace deal which not only involves israel and the palestinians, but syrians, lebanese and other surrounding countries. "lebanon will play a key role in the long-term effort to build lasting comprehensive peace and stability in the middle east," mitchell said after meeting prime minister fouad siniora. "clearly there can be no lasting solution reached at lebanon's expense and we look forward to continuing to work with lebanon to build this solution." privately, lebanese officials said they would inform mitchell of lebanon's opposition to naturalising some 400,000 palestinian refugees living in the country, arguing that doing so would upset lebanon's delicate sectarian balance. most of the refugees, who make up 10 percent of lebanon's population, are sunni muslims. this is the first time mitchell has visited lebanon in his visits to the region since he was appointed middle east envoy in january. mitchell had been reluctant to visit lebanon until the outcome of a parliamentary election held on sunday was known. a us-backed coalition, led by billionaire politician saad al-hariri, won 71 of 128 seats in parliament, against their opponents in an alliance that includes iranian-backed hezbollah. the surprise result has pleased the us administration which had indicated it would condition its aid to lebanon depending on who won the vote. obama called president michel suleiman to congratulate him on the election. "these elections were an important milestone for this country. the united states remains steadfast in its support for a sovereign, free, and independent lebanon," mitchell said. "we look forward to continuing to build our strong bilateral relations, to working with the new government, including in the effort to bring comprehensive peace and stability in the entire middle east," he said. mitchell has assured the palestinians of washington's commitment to a state of their own, saying its establishment was the only viable to solution to their conflict with israel. at the same time, the veteran envoy and former us senator, has promised israel its alliance with the united states would remain strong despite their differe --- 18 bcl men held after cmc clashes  chittagong, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  police detained 18 bcl leaders and activists at chittagong medical college on wednesday over the factional clashes of the ruling party-backed student body the previous night. police had raided the male student dormitory just after the clashes at around 11.15pm and held the bangladesh chhatra league men, panchlaish police chief udayan barua told bdnews24.com. seven people, three doctors and four students, were injured in fights between the two factions over the forming of the cmc chhatra league committee. "the hostel has quietened down," udayan said. a case was underway, he said. "the detainees would be shown arrested after the case was filed," the police official said. b --- schwarzer named australian player of the year  sydney, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - goalkeeper mark schwarzer has been named australia's footballer of the year after a superb season. the 36-year-old did not concede a single goal in australia's last seven world cup qualifiers, ensuring the socceroos were one of the first teams through to next year's world cup in south africa. "it's been a fantastic season," said schwarzer, now in his 16th season with the socceroos. "obviously you have dreams and ambitions in life and i've been very fortunate to live out my dream and along the way accomplish a lot of my life-long goals." midfielder tim cahill was voted by his peers as the australian players' player of the year --- senior us official arrives saturday  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)  us assistant secretary of state for south and central asian affairs robert o blake arrives in dhaka on saturday on a two-day visit, the us embassy in bangladesh said in a statement on thursday. in his first visit to bangladesh, blake will meet with prime minister sheikh hasina, foreign minister dipu moni, home minister sahara khatun and opposition chief khaleda zia to discuss new opportunities for cooperation between the united states and bangladesh, the statement said. the assistant secretary will also meet with mps, business people, and members of civil society. on feb 8, his predecessor richard a boucher visited bangladesh for two days. blake entered the foreign service in 1985 and served at the american embassies in tunisia, algeria, nigeria and egypt, according to another statement. he held a number of positions at the department of state in washington, including senior desk officer for turkey, deputy executive secretary, and executive assistant to the under secretary for political affairs, it said. ambassador blake served as deputy chief of mission at the us mission in new delhi from 2003 to 2006, as ambassador to sri lanka and the maldives from 2006 to mid-2009, and as assistant secretary for south and central asian affairs from may 2009 to the present, the statement added --- vettori matures into considerable cricketer  london, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - daniel vettori is a master of self-deprecation, a handy attribute for a captain of the new zealand cricket team. asked earlier this year why he had not welcomed new team manager dave currie with a haka, the maori war dance preceding all blacks' rugby matches, vettori replied: "skinny white men with glasses shouldn't do hakas." leading a team who habitually struggle on the world stage encourages both stoicism and wry humour. as a spin-bowling all-rounder vettori also carries an unusually heavy burden. it helps that he is an unusual man. for a start there is the name. daniel luca vettori, son of an italian father and new zealand mother, stands out in a team and country where, unlike australia, the settlers have been predominantly english and scots-irish. then there is the precocious start, 10 days after his 18th birthday, when he was selected for the new zealand side and put a planned university career on hold. he is still the youngest player to represent his country. finally there was the image. long-haired, slender and bespectacled, vettori looked every inch the student cricketer. twelve years on vettori has filled out, the hair is shorter and he has grown a beard. he is now not only the captain in the current twenty20 world cup in england but also his team's key player, who has been sorely missed in the opening matches while recovering from an injured shoulder. hard work vettori has plied his trade as an orthodox left-arm spinner at a time when batsmen have started using bats with surfaces like trampolines and pitches that have offered little to finger spinners. he has responded by evolving into a modern master of flight, who is regularly rated as the best bowler in 50-overs cricket and who was the most economical at the inaugural 2007 twenty20 world cup. a genuine tailender in his early days, he has by hard work and intelligent application made himself into the best number eight in test history. in a test against bangladesh in chittagong last october, vettori became the first man to score more than 50 runs in each of his team's innings and capture at least four wickets in each of the opposition's innings. the shorter format of the game suits new zealand, who lack the playing resources of their rivals -- something that is exposed in a five-day test. talking to reporters before the twenty20 tournament opened, vettori said new zealand were striving for consistency in a game which can turn on one over. high expectations "this is the chance in this tournament to put some of this consistency together. we have high expectations of ourselves and i know the new zealand public has high expectations of us. "we feel that and, although we fly under the radar in terms of world cricket, the people who care about new zealand cricket had high expectations," he said. "i think you can handle when an individual takes the game away from you, it's when your team doesn't put a performance together. it is difficult because guys play so aggressively your risk of failure is higher than any other format of the game." vettori said he and his team, who came into the tournament equal with australia as the two most experienced twenty20 nations, had learned to make the adjustment from 50-overs cricket. "you just take parts of the one-day game out of it. it's the first 10 overs and the last 10 overs of a one-day international so a lot of our guys have played so much international cricket now they understand the quick switch and i think they have a good feel for it," he said. spinners play a substantial role in twenty20 cricket. again, vettori keeps it simple. "i think the thing with spin bowling is you know batsmen are going to be aggressive to you so you don't have to second-guess yourself," he said. "i've found throughout my career that guys are going to come down and try and put you out of the park. if you can nullify that then you become a good spin bowler in this format of the game." vettori, who modified his action after back problems, is still only 30. he is eight tests away from reaching the hundred landmark and seven wickets short of becoming the eighth man to score 3,000 test runs and take 300 test wickets. the others are his compatriot richard hadlee, new zealand's finest cricketer, ian botham, imran khan, kapil dev, shaun pollock, chaminda vaas and shane warne. vettori belongs in their company --- anti-taliban cleric killed in pakistan blast: police  lahore, pakistan fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a prominent anti-taliban pakistani muslim cleric was killed on friday in a suicide bomb attack in the city of lahore, police said. "unfortunately, maulana sarfraz naeemi has been martyred," lahore police chief pervez rathore told reu --- budget dependent on borrowing, aid: lda  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)the left democratic alliance has said that the proposed budget would make the government dependent on borrowing and foreign aid. a meeting presided by alliance coordinator bazlul rashid at party office topkhana on friday said the government had exposed its real face by through making provision for whitening black money and highest allocation for paying loan interest. it also said the programmes to be undertaken in consultation with the 'imperialistic' donor agencies for poverty alleviation would rather enhance poverty. the meeting slammed the government for a cut in funding for power and energy sectors. on the proposed public-private partnership, the part said the budget would inspire the multinational companies to intrude in the service sector as it had not specified whether it would be local or foreign partnership. b --- new zealand coach buoyed by italy display  johannesburg, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - new zealand's coach has warned the side's confederations cup opposition against taking them lightly after the all whites scored three goals in a narrow defeat to italy in a warm-up international on wednesday. "we could be the dark horses in the tournament, who knows?" ricki herbert told reporters after new zealand led three times against the world champions before succumbing 4-3 in pretoria. herbert, who played for new zealand at the 1982 world cup finals in spain, described his side as "a young team with lots of self belief". "i was very proud of the way we played and to get a hat-trick of goals against a team of italy's pedigree was superb. we now go into the tournament with a real degree of confidence," he said. ranked 82nd in the world, new zealand open their confederations cup campaign against european champions spain in rustenburg on sunday. hosts south africa and asian champions iraq are the other teams in group a. "our agenda at the tournament was to finally get a point or a win, but to get to the semi-finals is now a realistic dream," herbert added. "we also want to keep the momentum going for the world cup qualifying play-off matches we have coming up at the end of the year. --- web 2.0 crowned one millionth english word  los angeles wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a us-based language monitoring group crowned web 2.0 as the one millionth word or phrase in the english language on wednesday, although other linguists slammed it as nonsense and a stunt. the global language monitor, which uses a math formula to track the frequency of words and phrases in print and electronic media, said web 2.0 appeared over 25,000 times in searches and was widely accepted, making it the legitimate, one millionth word. it said web 2.0 started out as a technical term meaning the next generation of world wide web products and services but had crossed into far wider circulation in the last six months. other linguists, however, denounced the list as pure publicity and unscientific, saying it was impossible to count english words in use or to agree on how many times a word must be used before it is officially accepted. there are no set rules for such a count as there is no certified arbiter of what constitutes a legitimate english word and classifying the language is complicated by the number of compound words, verbs and obsolete terms. "i think it's pure fraud ... it's not bad science. it's nonsense," geoffrey nunberg, a linguistics professor at the university of california at berkeley, told reporters. paul jj payack, president of the global language monitor, brushed off the criticism, saying his method was technically sound. "if you want to count the stars in the sky, you have to define what a star is first and then count. our criteria is quite plain and if you follow those criteria you can count words. most academics say what we are doing is very valuable," said payack. he has calculated that about 14.7 new english words or phrases are generated daily and said the five words leading up to the millionth highlighted how english was changing along with current social trends. this list included "jai ho!" an indian exclamation signifying victory or accomplishment, and "slumdog," a derisive term for children living in the slums of india that became popular with the oscar-winning movie "slumdog millionaire." the list also included "cloud computing," meaning services delivered via the cloud or internet, "carbon neutral," a widely used term in the climate change debate, and "n00b," a derogatory term from the gaming community for a newcomer. "some 400 years after the death of the bard, the words and phrases were coined far from stratford-upon-avon, emerging instead from silicon valley, india, china, and poland, as well as australia, canada, the us and the uk," said texas-based pa --- unconvincing mexico struggle to win over trinidad  mexico city, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - mexico staggered to a vital 2-1 win over trinidad & tobago in a world cup qualifier on wednesday, the victory keeping alive their hopes of automatic qualification for next year's finals. the result came as a relief to the hosts after back-to-back defeats in honduras and el salvador, but was not enough to squeeze into the top three places of the concacaf final stage group that would guarantee a place in south africa. as the six-team pool reached its halfway mark, mexico lie in fourth place on six points from five games, one point behind honduras. a fourth-placed finish would leave them with the unenviable prospect of a two-leg playoff against the fifth team from south america, currently ecuador. javier aguirre's team got of to a perfect start when guillermo franco collected a pass on the right, cut inside and slipped the goal past clayton ince in the first minute. mexico wasted chances to add to their lead and paid when hayden tinto pounced on a defensive mistake and fired into the top corner on the stroke of halftime. the hosts regained the lead three minutes after the break when oscar rojas scored from outside the area. the defeat left the soca warriors bottom with two points from five games --- gaddafi in first visit to ex-colonial power italy  rome, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - libya's muammar gaddafi began his first visit to former colonial power italy on wednesday, brazenly wearing a picture of a legendary resistance hero whom italian occupiers hanged in 1931. prime minister silvio berlusconi welcomed gaddafi on a trip rome hopes will close a painful chapter in the two countries' past. the visit by gaddafi, his first to italy since taking power in a 1969 coup, is one of the few in the west since economic sanctions were lifted after libya vowed to stop sponsoring terrorism. rome has pulled out all the stops for gaddafi, whose north african country supplies a quarter of italy's oil and is a source of much-needed capital for italian companies amid the global financial crisis. a $5 billion reparations deal last year paved the way for the visit. but, to the chagrin of some of the italian hosts, gaddafi arrived with a picture pinned to his chest that was a stark reminder of italy's past as a repressive colonial power. to the right of a battery of multi-colored insignia on his military jacket was a picture of libyan resistance hero omar al-mukhtar in chains alongside his italian captors. and just for good measure gaddafi brought along al-mukhtar's son, now an elderly man who had to be helped off the plane by a bevy of security men and who later sat in a wheelchair on the tarmac while national anthems were played. "a long, painful chapter with libya has been closed," berlusconi told reporters at the airport before gaddafi, who carried a black baton under his left shoulder, went to a state lunch with italian president giorgio napolitano. "i praise this generation of italians for having resolved the issues of the past with great courage," gaddafi told reporters. a dark colonial past italy ruled libya from 1911 to 1943 in a hugely expensive exercise without ever being able to control the country fully. gaddafi has repeatedly lambasted italy over colonial rule, but the two nations have long maintained close business ties. libya has been increasingly flexing its financial and political muscle on the world stage since international sanctions were lifted in 2003. gaddafi is also set to address italy's business community, which is looking for signs that libya will continue to funnel its petrodollars into italian companies after high-profile stake purchases in unicredit and eni last year. while italy's political and business community are expected to fawn over gaddafi and his entourage with the hopes of sealing more business deals, he will also face protests. amnesty international is planning a protest in a central rome square to bring attention to what it says is libya's poor human rights record. protests are also planned when gaddafi addresses students at rome university on thursday. some senators have also balked at allowing gaddafi to become only the third non-italian to address the senate. leftist lawmakers have announced a boycott a meeting with italians expelled from libya after gaddafi seized power is scheduled for saturday, but the jewish community who fled the north african nation have refused to meet on the sabbath. several areas in rome have been blocked off for the visit, including a lush park where a tent has been pitched for gaddafi to receive gu --- worst is over for the indian economy: pm adviser  new delhi, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india's industrial output growth in april showed signs of recovery and the worst is over for the economy, a senior policy adviser said on friday. "signs of recovery are there. worst is over, that is what i have been saying. worst is over for the economy," said suresh tendulkar, the head of prime minister's economic advisory council. data on friday showed industrial output rose by 1.4 percent in april from a year earlier, rebounding after declining three times in the previous four mo --- shafiq calls for adr to fight case-jam  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  law minister shafiq ahmed saturday called on public prosecutors to take up 'alternative dispute resolution' to tackle the massive backlog of cases jamming the courts. "many countries have alternative means of resolving cases out of court," shafiq said at a daylong training for pps at the justice administration training centre. "we should introduce such a system to free the courts through quick disposal of thousands of unresolved cases." he also criticised the delays caused by lawyers seeking time extensions. many of the thousands of pending cases can be resolved quickly by two means, firstly by not seeking time extensions and lengthy adjournments, and secondly by settling them through alternative means," the minister said. alternative settlements can be applied in both criminal and civil cases, he added. public prosecutors must be up-to-date about the changing face of crime and new laws, he said. "state lawyers should play a better role in discharging their duties by knowing and presenting all the required information and arguments on behalf of the government," he said. meanwhile, public prosecutor abdul mannan voiced concern, which he said many shared, by the appointment of "too many pps". "there is not enough office space or desks," he said. "there used to be 35 pps, generals prosecutors, additional pps and assistant pps in dhaka. the number is now 98," he said. "eighteen new appointments were made in place of three additional pps," mannan said. the law minister said those appointments were made in line with recommendations from lawyers, "not for any other reason". "the government is moving to solve the problem of space. you will see a quick solution," shafiq added. bdnews --- pakistan kill scores of taliban in new combat zones  bannu, pakistan, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the pakistani army unleashed helicopter gunships and artillery to kill scores of taliban fighters on thursday after opening a second front against militants in area bordering their stronghold in the waziristan tribal region. already in the final stages of an operation to clear islamist fighters from the swat valley, far to the northwest and closer to islamabad, the military went on the offensive on tuesday in bannu district after up to 800 militants infiltrated from waziristan. us officials, who have been worried that the taliban could drive nuclear-armed pakistan into chaos, have welcomed the offensive in swat. there has been speculation that once that was over the focus would switch to waziristan, long regarded as a hub of taliban and al qaeda activity. a military statement said 66 militants had been killed in fighting mostly in bannu and south waziristan, but also swat, during the last 24 hours. in bannu alone, more than 130 militants have been killed since the army swung into action two days ago, according to military officers and a senior civilian official in the area. independent casualty estimates are unavailable. "the operation is going on very well. helicopter gunships, artillery, everything is being used," kamran zeb, the top administrator in bannu, told reuters. in south waziristan, the stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud, around 400 militants attacked two forts in jandola and siplatoi. they killed three soldiers but lost 22 of their own men, the military statement said. standing at the gateway to waziristan, bannu is 150 km (90 miles) southwest of peshawar, the capital of north west frontier province, where a suicide truck bomb attack on a luxury hotel killed at least nine people on tuesday. richard holbrooke, the us special representative for afghanistan and pakistan, said he saw a dramatic shift in the pakistani government's attitude because of public outrage over the taliban's actions, including the attack on the hotel. "what i saw in pakistan on this trip was a slow emergence of a consensus behind the government's actions," holbrooke said in washington on wednesday, reporting back on his trip last week. aid crunch pakistan's decision to opt for military action in swat has been helped by a shift in public opinion. that support might ebb if the welfare of some 2.5 million people displaced by the conflict in the northwest is mishandled. nine aid agencies said on thursday in london they would be forced to stop or cut back supplies of aid unless a funding crisis was resolved. the united nations has appealed for $543 million, but has received only $138 million so far. the united nations is heavily involved in relief efforts, and five u.n. workers, including two foreigners, were among those killed in the suicide attack on peshawar's pearl continental hotel. heavy bombing in the tribal region of orakzai, security forces also used artillery and warplanes to obliterate a militant compound, killing at least five people, but probably more, according to the the region's mayor. "it's been heavy bombing and there must be many more casualties, both militants and civilians. we're trying to collect the numbers," mayor gul khitab said. a pro-taliban cleric, maulvi jameel, said several militants' positions and hideouts had been struck during the raid. he didn't have information about casualties. immediately to the southwest of peshawar, militants had until a year ago little presence in orakzai, one of the more developed tribal regions. there have been clashes scattered across swat this week, but the largest population centers and key roads have been cleared of taliban, and the army has smashed the militants main bases and training camps in the mountains. the military says more than 1,300 militants and 105 soldiers have been killed in swat, though there are no independent casualty estimates available. some taliban fighters have fled through the passes to the kalam valley in the north, and upper dir district, where the army has backed a tribal militia, or lashkar, that has turned on the insurg --- pakistan orders offensive against taliban chief  islamabad, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan has ordered the military to carry out an offensive against pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud and his fighters, a provincial governor said on sunday. the announcement came hours after a bomb in a market killed eight people in a northwest pakistani town, the latest in a wave of attacks since the army launched an offensive against taliban militants in the swat valley northwest of islamabad. nuclear-armed pakistan is struggling to push back a growing taliban insurgency and security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting against militants in swat. the militants have responded with a string of bombs in towns and cities. mehsud has been blamed for many of the suicide attacks in pakistan, including the assassination of former prime minister benazir bhutto, in december 2007. expectations have been rising that the military will launch an offensive against him as the army enters the final stages of its campaign in swat. "the military and law enforcement agencies have been ordered to carry out a full-fledged operation to eliminate these beasts and killers by using all resources," awais ahmed ghani, governor of north west frontier province, told reporters, referring to mehsud. he did not say when the offensive would be launched but said mehsud and his people had provided shelter to "anti-pakistan forces," including many foreigners, and had been training suicide bombers. the violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states, which needs its muslim ally's help to defeat al qaeda and stabilize neighboring afghanistan. drone strike earlier on sunday, a bomb planted on a cart in a market in the northwestern town of dera ismail khan killed eight people and wounded 25, a government official said. separately, a suspected us drone aircraft fired a missile in south waziristan killing three militants traveling in a vehicle, a witness and officials said. a government official in the region confirmed the attack, saying drones had been flying over south waziristan since early morning. the identity of the dead militants was not known. the united states, alarmed by the deteriorating security in afghanistan, has also been using drone aircraft to attack taliban and al qaeda fighters in northwestern pakistani militant strongholds. though a staunch us ally, pakistan objects to the u.s. missile strikes saying they violate its sovereignty and undermine efforts to deal with militancy because they inflame public anger and bolster militant support. warplanes aircraft struck another mehsud stronghold in south waziristan on saturday in retaliation for the killing of an anti-taliban cleric in a suicide attack in the city of lahore the previous day. the strike killed 30 militants, including a few foreigners, and wounded 50, the military said on sunday. independent casualty estimates were not available. in the past week, the military has stepped up attacks in several parts of the northwest in what analysts see as an attempt to distract the militants and "soften up" their positions. residents in the bajaur region on the afghan border to the northeast of waziristan said aircraft bombed militants in several villages on sunday but there were no reports of casualties. the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest has displaced about 2.5 million people and aid officials have appealed to donors to step up their help. the public largely backs the government in its war on the taliban but support could evaporate if civilians are seen to suffer unduly. on thursday, the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for five years to help combat extremism through development. pakistan is now the biggest recipient of us aid --- suu kyi trial clouds myanmar cyclone aid effort  bangkok, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - myanmar's trial of opposition leader aung san suu kyi will hurt international efforts to help the army-ruled country's recovery from the devastation of cyclone nargis, donors said on wednesday. the donors, which include the us, britain, european commission and japan, have told the association of south east asian nations (asean) they are concerned about the trial, and to expect delays in the delivery of aid. "(the trial) has not helped the enthusiasm of their constituencies to engage more actively and more fully," asean secretary-general surin pitsuwan told reporters after a meeting with donors in bangkok. suu kyi, 63, faces three to five years in prison if found guilty of breaching terms of her house arrest by allowing an american intruder to stay for two days after he swam to her home on may 4. cyclone nargis battered the former burma in may 2008, leaving 140,000 dead and 2.4 million destitute, with the irrawaddy delta worst affected. aid groups and diplomats in myanmar were optimistic that humanitarian operations would increase, but donors said suu kyi's trial could derail fundraising efforts. "some activists were already sceptical about providing humanitarian aid to burma ... and the u.n. was having difficulty raising sufficient funds," said harn yawnghwe, executive director of the brussels-based euro-burma office. "now, it will, politically speaking, be even more difficult. anyone proposing more humanitarian aid will face strong political opposition in their home countries," he told reuters. a conviction for the nobel laureate is widely expected and would further isolate one of the world's most secretive regimes. since suu kyi's arrest, u.s. president barack obama has renewed sanctions and the european union is considering increasing restrictions on the regime. aid debate international aid has not flowed easily to myanmar, with critics arguing it would bolster the ruling generals, the latest in an unbroken line of military rulers since 1962. aid workers are concerned the regime's latest crackdown on suu kyi, who has spent more than 13 of the past 19 years in detention, will make it harder to secure aid commitments. myanmar already receives scant overseas development assistance, a meagre $2.85 per head compared with nearly $50 for sudan and neighbouring laos. one in 10 people live below the poverty line in myanmar, where the regime spends only $0.70 per person on healthcare annually. it has one of the highest rates of tuberculosis in the world and a third of all children under 5 are malnourished. "it would be really silly to penalise the people of this country for actions taken by the current military regime," said andrew kirkwood, country director for save the children uk. aung naing oo, an exiled myanmar activist, said now is the time for the outside world to provide more aid, not less. "it's the junta they want to isolate but the economy, education, social needs and healthcare are all affected in the process," he  --- 'discouragement for real taxpayers'  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the provision for 'whitening black money' in the proposed budget is a discouragement for genuine taxpayers, a top bids researcher said on thursday. "the government should not have extended the offer to whiten black money as it undermines the confidence of real taxpayers," bids research director zaid bakht said. "they may be deterred from paying taxes." finance minister ama muhith, in his budget speech in the day, proposed an unprecedented three-year amnesty to draw black money into the mainstream economy. "no questions will be asked" on source of funds provided a flat-rate 10 percent tax is paid and the money is invested in one of 42 sectors from july 1 2009 to june 30, 2012, said the finance minister. a similar "no questions asked" policy is also offered to home buyers in the new budget. such schemes have been offered in the past, but only for months at a time. in the lead up to the budget, analysts on the whole as opposed to the business communityhad been critical of such amnesties for tax dodgers, on both ethical and practical grounds. the finance minister in his budget speech said the facility was being given to boost investment, employment and to create more homeowners. there are many potential sectors of our economy where investments could carry forward our efforts for change," said muhith, in a preamble to the proposed three-year amnesty. says bakht: "some shareholders may be benefited if the secondary market sees a boost but it will not foster industry." "the size of the budget also holds major challenges. though the budget projects huge revenue earnings, revenue collection will undoubtedly face limitations," he said. on the annual development programme, he said, "we always have problems in implementing adp." "we failed to utilise tk 20,000 crore under the adp in the outgoing fiscal year, while the proposed budget has allocated tk 30,000 crore for the same programme," said bakht. terming it an "expansionary" budget, he said: "the main objectives of the proposed budget are to fulfill electoral pledges and overcome the onslaught of global recession." bdnew --- new us general looks to shift tack in afghanistan  london, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united states plans to review tactics in afghanistan in response to widespread anger about the high number of civilian casualties, the newly appointed us commander said in comments broadcast on friday. speaking after his confirmation by the u.s. senate, lieutenant general stanley mcchrystal said his focus would be balancing the "short-term tactical impact" of operations with the "long-term strategic effect," emphasizing that protecting the population was central to getting the balance right. "one of the things we will do is review all of our rules of engagement and all the instructions to our units, with the emphasis that we are fighting for the population and that involves protecting them both from the enemy and from unintended consequences of our operation," mcchrystal told the bbc. "we know that while an operation may be conducted for the right reasons, if it has negative effects it can have a negative outcome for everyone." mcchrystal, a former commander of special forces in iraq, is due to take command of the 56,000 u.s. troops and 33,000 others from nato countries shortly, replacing general david mckiernan, who was effectively dismissed last month. the high level of civilian casualties from u.s. air strikes and other attacks on suspected taliban hideouts has become an extremely sensitive issue, with afghanistan's leaders and the local population openly critical of the u.s. military. an air strike last month in western afghanistan killed a large number of civilians, with the u.s. military acknowledging 20-35 killed and the afghan government saying it was 140. "the most important part is shielding the afghan people so they can accept the government of afghanistan as legitimate and effective," mcchrystal said of his priorities. "so if we win this effort, it will be because we protected the population, and going after the high-value enemy targets will just be a supporting effort to do that." the general acknowledged that the war in afghanistan had a long way to run. when asked if he could do with more troops, he said that no general would ever turn down extra forces. he said an overall goal would be preventing al qaeda's re-emergence. "the guidance that i've been given as i interpret it is to prevent both al qaeda's re-emergence and, in this case, the taliban taking over afghanistan, so that we don't have safe havens inside afghanistan in the future," he said. --- web of dreams, says bnp  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the main opposition bnp, who remained absent from parliament during the finance minister's speech thursday, has called the awami league government's maiden budget "a web of dreams". bnp secretary general khandaker delwar made the comment to reporters in an instant reaction on the budget soon after watching the speech live on tv. "the budget is full of empty rhetoric. the finance minister is weaving a web of dreams," he said. he said it was "highly ambitious" and "unachievable." "the budget will fail to play any role in public welfare. the people of the country will cast it aside." delwar was flanked by a panel, called together for an instant analysis, that included former ministers osman faruq, abdul moin khan, former fbcci president abdul awal mintoo, former vice chancellor of jahangirnagar university mostahidur rahman and dhaka university professor mahbub ullah among others. delwar said, "no budget can be implemented unless rule of law is established but the finance minister said nothing on the establishment of good governance." he also blasted the government for leaking data about raised duty on certain products. former minister osman faruq said, "it seems to me that the finance minister is dreaming." "the sectors which have received allocation have no consistency with the projected growth," he said. muhith's budget targets 5.5 percent gdp growth for the coming year, down from 5.88 percent growth in the outgoing fiscal. "the government will have to depend on bank borrowing to implement the budget,"he added. "the optimism of the finance minister will remain a mere dream as spending will exceed earnings." moin khan said, "the budget has disappointed us as it seems to me that it is a cut and paste version of the old budget." bnp has been boycotting the house over a seating dispute with the ruling partysince the new parliement convened in january. bdnews2 --- biman dominate nat'l tt  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com) bangladesh biman dominated the ab bank 30th national table tennis championship on sunday by clinching the men's doubles, boy's doubles and boy's singles titles at the wooden floor gymnasium adjacent to the bangabandhu national stadium. the hamlet and mason pair of biman routed the mostafa and mahbub pair of bangladesh ansar 3-0 in the final while biman boys asif and regan also followed their seniors to thrash himel of biman and javed of munshiganj also by straight 3-0 sets in the final. asif also clinched the boy's single title beating palash of dhaka district 3-1 in the final. biman had earlier clinched the boy's team event beating dhaka district in the final while bangladesh ansar became champions in the men's and women's team events. the final matches of the men's singles, women's singles and the mixed doubles will be held on monday. bd --- bollywood's jodhaa akbar wins at indian film awards  macau, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - indian epic film jodhaa akbar scooped top honours in india's version of the oscars at a ceremony in the chinese gambling haven of macau saturday. some of indian cinema's biggest names including amitabh bachchan and hrithik roshan graced the green carpet, as thousands of fans screamed and jostled for autographs at the annual iifa (international indian film academy) awards. the night's big winner in an awards ceremony replete with circus performers, fireworks and high-octane bollywood dance routines was jodhaa akbar, about a 16th century muslim emperor who marries a hindu princess. the film picked up awards including best picture and best director for ashutosh gowariker, while heart-throb hrithik roshan won best male actor and a.r. rahman best music direction. the film's director said the central theme of religious tolerance was a vital one for contemporary indian society. "yes, we do need a hindu-muslim alliance ... we do need a dynamic secular india in the 21st century," said gowariker. india, home to the world's most prolific movie industry, has tried to broaden its global appeal through the annual iifa awards, held in a different city each year. "any audience is important to us, and china is a huge market, we love chinese films back home and i hope they enjoy our films," said actor abhishek bachchan, who won "best performance in a comic role." "i think it's bringing indian cinema to the world," said hemal ghelani, 18, an indian resident in singapore, who flew in with her family for the event. "we're very excited to be here." the awards come at a challenging time for bollywood, the popular name for india's huge hindi-language film industry, with box office takings and film budgets hit by the downturn. a strike by film producers over box-office takings in multiplex cinemas also saw no major indian films released for two months until the strike ended in early june. india's filmed entertainment sector, estimated at about $2.2 billion, is expected to suffer badly this year. longer term though, consultancy kpmg forecasts average growth of more than 9 percent a year over the next five years. indian actor rajesh khanna was presented with a lifetime achievement award for his 40 years of cinematic work. "a long journey i must say," he said in receiving his award. best actress was won by priyanka chopra for "fashion" while aishwarya rai, a former miss world won "best actress of the decade," while "lagaan" won best picture of the decade. the awards show was a lively mix of singing and dancing by the likes of abhishek bachchan, while jugglers and acrobats from macau's cirque du soleil lent an air of mystique. the awards ceremony is expected to eventually reach 600 million viewers worldwide, organizers s --- russia military says needs 1,500 warheads: report  moscow, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia must keep at least 1,500 nuclear warheads after talks with the united states on a new arms treaty, interfax news agency quoted the commander of russia's strategic nuclear forces as saying wednesday. if moscow's final position reflects colonel-general nikolai solovtsov's view, it would mean russia is not willing to cut its stockpiles by more than a few hundred strategic warheads - far less than some arms control bodies had hoped. "in this contract on a new strategic forces treaty, russia must not have less than 1,500 nuclear warheads, but this decision is up to the political authorities of the country," solovtsov told interfax. russia and the united states are in talks on a new nuclear arms treaty that aims to reduce stockpiles below the 1,700-2,200 figure both sides already agree must be reached by 2012. discussion on agreeing a replacement to the strategic arms reduction treaty (start 1) that expires on december 5 are expected to form a key element of us president barack obama's visit to moscow on july 6-8. negotiators from moscow and washington have already held a series of talks on a new agreement to further reduce stockpiles and are set for further talks. russia has also said it wants to link the nuclear talks to us plans to deploy an anti-missile shield in europe and has pushed for the united states to put a limit on the number of delivery systems -- the rockets or other means that deliver wea --- sri lanka repulse spirited irish challenge  london, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - sri lanka repulsed a gallant challenge from ireland at lord's on sunday to win their twenty20 world cup second-round match by nine runs. ireland, the only non-test playing nation still in the tournament, restricted the 1996 world one-day champions to 144 for nine after sri lanka had won the toss and elected to bat. the irish reached 87 for one in pursuit before sri lanka's potent bowling trio of lasith malinga, muttiah muralitharan and ajantha mendis took control. mystery spinner mendis dismissed the o'brien brothers niall and kevin in the same over and malinga bowled trent johnston and andre botha with successive yorkers. ireland needed 18 from the final over but it was always too high a target against the pace of malinga. the irish surpassed themselves in the field at the home of cricket after looking no more than a club side against new zealand in their opening super eight game. man-of-the-match mahela jayawardene, with 78 from 53 deliveries and the only six of the innings, stroked the ball sweetly but only two other batsmen reached double figures. wicketkeeper niall o'brien gave a splendid performance with three catches and a swift stumping off australian-born medium-pacer alex cusack, who took four wickets from nine deliveries --- pakistan conflict could displace 500,000 more: un  london, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united nations is preparing for some half a million people to flee pakistan's northwest region of waziristan if the government mounts a big operation against taliban militants there, the un aid chief said. john holmes, the un under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs, said on tuesday that plans were being made to deal with the fallout from an anticipated expansion of the army's offensive to root out insurgents in the northern swat valley, which has already displaced around two million people. holmes said the government appeared to be considering a similar strategy in the lawless tribal lands of waziristan on the afghan border -- known as a taliban stronghold -- which would present a fresh challenge for stretched aid agencies. "half a million people or more might come out of waziristan. they will not go to the same geographical area as the present (uprooted people), so it's a completely separate operation," he told reuters in a telephone interview fron new york. "that's why our contingency planning has been focusing on that and how we might manage, which is not going to be easy, and will require a further effort and more resources." the exact number of civilians uprooted by fighting in the north remains fluid as the government is still registering people, and there have been estimates that 2.5 million people have been displaced. but most of those uprooted by the violence have been forced to flee their homes since the end of april, and are crammed into the houses of host families or camps. short of funds aid groups are struggling to cope with the surge in need for food and other relief. on may 22, the united nations launched an appeal for $543 million to help those displaced by the conflict, but as of tuesday, it had received only around a quarter. holmes said the slow response from international donors was putting the humanitarian response at risk. "these are very costly operations and some of the agencies on the food and other sides are making clear they will not be able to continue with this for more than a few more weeks, unless some funding comes through," he said. he added that he did not know why governments were reluctant to contribute, given the strong international interest in pakistan's efforts to tackle hardline islamic militancy, but warned the humanitarian crisis was unlikely to end quickly. "our assumption is that this is going to last for several months before everybody can go home at the very least, because conditions in the areas we have been able to get into, like buner, suggest there's a lot of work to do to restore basic services and clear up," he said. the united nations has not yet been able to enter much of the conflict zone to check on how many people remain and on the conditions. only the red cross has been given access to mingora, the main town in swat. "we would like to get in there as soon as is practical, but for the moment ... the government does not want us to go in ... and it is not safe to go there, so that's not something that is going to happen in the very immediate future," holmes  --- nato warship rescues indian sailors freed by pirates  on board nrp corte-real, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a nato warship picked up fourteen indian sailors off somalia on saturday, a day after they were freed by pirates who had beaten them during 10 days of captivity. the pirates released the weakened crew of the dhow vishvakalyan on friday after stealing provisions and kit. "they hit the crew all over, on the head, everywhere," the vishvakalyan's captain, ismail abdurehman said. the pirates took most of the seamen's belongings including radios, phones, television sets and presents bought for their families. the pirates left only three chickens and the dhow's cat. international navies are patrolling the busy shipping lanes off somalia to try and prevent hijacks that have worried shipping firms, driven up insurance costs and prompted some vessels to avoid the gulf of aden. on friday night, the pirates shot wildly into the air, shouting "go, go, go," at the sailors, said abdureham. dario precioso, a lieutenant on the portuguese warship nrp corte-real said the dhow crew set off for the yemeni island of socotra to get help. "but they probably would have died if we hadn't found them -- as they had no supplies," he said. the nrp corte-real spotted the dhow about 20 nautical miles southeast of hobyo off somalia's coast. the international maritime bureau says more ships have been attacked off somalia so far in 2009 than in the whole of 2008 -- 133 reported attacks compared with 111 in 2008. but fewer of those attacks have been successful -- 30 compared with 42 last year. abdurehman said the pirates attacked the vishvakalyan as it carried a shipment of charcoal from the port of brava, south of mogadishu, to sharjah in the united arab emirates on june 3. the seamen, from gujarat, india, had been unable to call for help because the pirates broke their vhf radio antenna --- india state-run banks should consider mergers: mukherjee  new delhi jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the finance minister said on wednesday state-run banks should seriously consider mergers to be more competitive and to reduce financial risks. "(state-run banks) should look at consolidation as a serious option in order to reduce risk to financial stability and to face competition," pranab mukherjee said in a statement after meeting bankers. "any consolidation initiative in the banking sector would be viewed positively and government, as a majority shareholder, would continue to play a supportive role in this proc --- wicketkeeper shahagir in provisional wi tour squad  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  wicketkeeper shahagir hossain was the surprise name in the provisional 20-member squad for the tour of the west indies in july which was named on saturday. bangladesh will play two tests, five odis and a twenty20 international. the selection committee headed by rafiqul alam has retained much of the world twenty20 squad except rookie wicketkeeper mithun ali who never featured in any of two group-phase matches in the tournament. "shahagir has been in superb form throughout the session and has been considered as a backup wicketkeeper," chief selector alam said. "mithun was picked for the world twenty20. besides, the selection committee recalled five experienced players opener imrul kayes, middle order batsman mehrab hossain jr, pacers nazmul hossain and mahbubul alam and left-arm spinner enamul haque jr. all of them except nazmul were in the test squad against sri lanka in december 2008-january 2009 at home. the chief selector said they would shortlist the 20-member squad in a week. the provisional squad will undergo 11 days training at the mirpur sher-e-bangla national stadium that will begin on june 15 before leaving for the west indies on june 29. the players have been asked to report to bangladesh a team coach khaled mahmud, who will oversee the training programme in the absence of australian coach jamie siddons, who is now in australia on leave. squad: mohammad ashraful, masrafee bin mortaza, tamim iqbal, zunaed siddique, raqibul hasan, shakib al hasan, mushfiqur rahim, naeem islam, abdur razzak, shahadat hossain, syed rasel, mahmudullah riad, rubel hossain, shamsur rahman shuvo, mehrab hossain jr, imrul kayes, nazmul hossain, mahbubul alam, enamul haque jr and shahagir hossain. bd --- ronaldo hails 'historic' deal, calderon claims credit  london, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - cristiano ronaldo has described his impending world record 80 million pounds ($131.7 million) move to real madrid as "historic" and is looking forward to starting a new stage of his career. manchester united announced on thursday they had accepted real's staggering offer for the 24-year-old, who is currently on holiday in los angeles. while florentino perez has marked his return as real president with the bid for the portuguese winger and the signing of brazilian kaka from milan, former president ramon calderon is now insisting he set up the ronaldo deal six months ago. "i have had my time at man united," ronaldo, who only recently said he wanted to stay at the english premier league champions, was quoted as saying in british media. "it's time to look forward and 80 million is quite a sum of money. this deal is historic." calderon tried to lure ronaldo away from old trafford a year ago but he opted to stay and try to win a third consecutive english title with united. however, calderon said ronaldo knew he would be joining real madrid for next season after striking a "gentleman's agreement" last december, shortly before ronaldo was named fifa's world player of the year. "let's just say that everyone involved in the operation agreed to do it this season," calderon said in the sun. "that is what i can say. it has happened now, it was a bit early last season." virus calderon's claim that he masterminded the deal will take some of the shine off perez, who took over on june 1 and paid almost 60 million pounds for kaka. "yes, i did it at the time," calderon said. "that was the time to do it. i'm very proud. for me, it's an honour and a pleasure to be able to do that. "i don't mind that someone else is going to present him. that's not important. the important thing is real madrid. i think it's a fantastic signing for real madrid." manchester united manager alex ferguson memorably said last season that he would not sell real madrid a "virus," making calderon's claim all the more surprising. the club's chief executive, david gill, denied any deal had been done with calderon last season. "david has asked me to assure you that at no point until last night has there ever been an agreement of any sort between real madrid and man united over anything to do with cristiano ronaldo," a club spokesman said. ronaldo himself said he had only heard of the deal while in los angeles. "now i can look forward to real madrid and a new stage in my career," he said. "i learned of the deal here in la and heard from my people that united had accepted." ronaldo also dispelled fears that a hernia injury could stop the deal going through. "i've been told that madrid want to have a medical team look at me, as expected. i do not require surgery. the hernia is nothing to worry about. --- relief for old, but plan to net dodgers  dhaka june 11 (bdnews24.com)the finance minister, a m a muhith, has sought to help senior citizens and pensioners with reduced direct tax burden, but the much-abused tax holidays will be replaced with low rates. the minister promised a "tax-payer friendly income tax regime" with simpler laws and procedures as he made plain he would beef up efforts to broaden the base to grassroots. muhith proposed to set up a new court styled national tax tribunal and listed plans to make more people pay. he proposed to "lower the age bar from 70 years to 65 years to help reduce the personal income tax burden on senior bangladeshi citizens". "i also propose to keep income emanating from pensioners' savings certificates tax free," he said. "revenue from imports is going down significantly for various reasons. in this backdrop, there is no alternative to increasing revenue from income tax," muhith said in his budget speech. duties on imports, he said, accounted for 42 percent of bangladesh's total inland revenue. "it is imperative to undertake automation of income tax department, its organizational restructuring and expansion, to create a tax-friendly environment by simplification of tax law and to expand tax base in order to achieve the set target for income tax revenue. just 10% for black money "to this end, i would like to propose acceptance of undisclosed money without any question during the period from 1 july 2009 to 30 june 2012 provided that a payment of 10% tax is made and it is invested in certain new industries and also bmre of units in the same industries and provision of physical infrastructure facilities shares of listed companies of stock exchange. click here for details tax holiday to go "i feel that it would be more appropriate to replace existing tax holidays with provisions for payment of taxes at a reduced rate to create an enabling environment for industrialization, investment and job creation in the country. "tax holiday acts as an impediment to the taxpaying culture. "so, this existing system of tax holiday, which remains in force until 2012, shall not be extended any further. "under this scheme, i propose to offer reduced tax rate for certain sectors." the rate, the minister said, would vary for newly established industries from location to location: in dhaka division and chittagong division (barring rangamati, bandarban and khagrachhari districts) for first and second year 5%, for third and fourth year 10% and for fifth year 15%; in rajshahi, khulna, sylhet, barisal divisions and rangamati, bandarban and khagrachhari districts of chittagong division for first, second and third year 5%, for fourth, fifth and sixth year 10% and for seventh year 15%. netting more payers "to broaden the tax net upto upazila level and identify new tax payers," the minister proposed to conduct surveys in areas across the country. the areas proposed are: uttara, nikunja, banasri, basundhara-baridhara project area, savar, dohar, nawabganj, keraniganj of dhaka district, louhojang of munshiganj district, patia, sitakunda, satkania, hathajari, mirershawrai of chittagong district and bianibazar of sylhet district. "i also propose to continue this survey in other important business centers and places of the country in phase --- wtcc begins operation without mp latif  ruhul amin rana bdnews24.com correspondent chittagong, june 12 (bdnews24.com)the water transport coordination cell began operations on friday after dropping mp and ccci president mohammed abdul latif from the post of adviser and convenor, leading to a run-in with police. shipping minister afsarul amin and chittagong city corporation mayor abm mohiuddin chowdhury attended the launching programme as chief guest and special guest respectively. the wtcc was formed in 2005 in association with coastal ship owners' association and bangladesh cargo owners' vessel owners' association. a memorandum of understanding signed with the chamber stipulated that the chittagong chamber of commerce and industry president and senior most vice-president would hold the post of adviser and convenor respectively. but latif, awami league mp from chittagong-10, thrust himself into the post of both adviser and convenor on being elected ccci chief eight months back. the aggrieved ship owners sat with the shipping minister who on june 3 directed senior vice president of the chamber mohammed abdus salam to take the charge of convenor. ignoring the minister's directives, latif expressed his desire to retain the convenor's post and got related papers signed by the chamber directors. he decided to launch wtcc operations without intermediaries of the ship owners' association while the latter retaliated by cancelling the mou with the chamber signed four years ago around 10am on friday when latif, accompanied by some hundred supporters, attempted entering the wtcc office, the police stopped them and an altercation arose. rebuffed by the police, the mp manhandled both nirmalendu bikash chakravarti, assistant police commissioner, doublemoorings zone, and local police chief akm manjurul haque, police said. latif sustained minor injuries latif alleged, "shipping minister afsarul amin and chittagong mayor abm mohiuddin chowdhury set the police to stop him entering wtcc office." "at their instruction police kept beating me mercilessly until i fell on the ground." he alleged that the minister and his men were trying to occupy wtcc office to establish a reign of plundering. "it is because of them that the country has become a land of thieves and cheats," he said. bdnew --- new program seeks to deliver vaccines to poor  london, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - five governments and the bill & melinda gates foundation pledged $1.5 billion on friday to help give poor countries better access to vaccines against pneumococcal disease such as pneumonia and meningitis. the advance market commitment program creates financial incentive with a guaranteed price to persuade companies to invest the large sums of money it takes to develop new vaccines. the gavi alliance, the gates-funded group established to speed delivery of vaccines against a wide range of disease to the developing world, will run the program and allocate another $1.3 billion for it. "we look forward to pharmaceutical firms applying to the advance market commitment quickly in order to ensure the rapid introduction of life-saving vaccines," julian lob-levyt, chairman of the geneva-based gavi alliance, said in a statement. pneumococcal disease kills more than 1.6 million people worldwide each year, including at least 800,000 children. more than 90 percent of the deaths occur in the world's poorest countries. the existing pneumococcal vaccine, wyeth's prevnar, protects against seven strains of the disease but these are not the ones most common in the developing world, gavi said. wyeth, slated for takeover later this year by pfizer inc, will soon face a challenge from glaxosmithkline's new pneumococcal vaccine synflorix, which won european approval in march. another problem is that vaccine research is often viewed as a low priority by pharmaceutical companies, especially when the target market is the developing world. the current vaccine costs more than $70 per dose in the industrialized world but the new program funded by the governments of italy, britain, canada, russia and norway aims to bring the long-term price down to $3.50 in poor countries. "this innovative new model will mean faster access to vaccines for millions of children in poor countries," bill gates, co-chair of the bill & melinda gates foundation said in a statement. the program aims to spur vaccine development by guaranteeing a price. this commitment provides pharmaceutical companies with the incentive to do the research and to build manufacturing capacity, the gavi alliance said. participating companies will agree to long-term commitments to supply the vaccines at lower and sustainable prices even after the donor funds are spent, it added. the goal is to introduce the vaccines in up to 60 of the world's poorest countries by 2015 as part of the challenge to make the treatments part of regular immunization prog --- michael jackson concerts face legal challenge  los angeles, jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a music promoter on wednesday sued to stop michael jackson from performing in london this year, claiming his appearances would violate a prior contract. new jersey-based allgood entertainment inc contends in the lawsuit filed in federal court in new york it signed a deal with the singer's manager, frank dileo, in november committing him to an appearance in the us this summer. under the agreement, jackson is not supposed to give another concert before that show, the lawsuit states. jackson has signed with aeg live to play 50 shows at london's o2 arena starting in july. allgood entertainment contends those shows violate the new jersey company's agreement with dileo, which it says predates the singer's deal with aeg live. representatives for jackson and aeg live were not immediately available to comment. aeg live, which is named in the lawsuit, has previously called allgood entertainment's claims meaningless. jackson has been rehearsing in the los angeles area for the london shows. allgood entertainment contends in its lawsuit its agreement with dileo also left the door open for jackson to perform with other members of his show business family, which includes his brothers from the jackson five and sister janet jackson. the company's lawsuit alleges breach of contract, fraud and tortious interference with a contract. it seeks at least $20 million in compensatory damages and at least $20 million in punitive damages. it also names as defendants jackson's production company, as well as dileo, his company and aeg live's parent company aeg, a wholly owned subsidiary of the anschutz company. jackson's series of london shows have been touted as unprecedented. aeg live says that, all together, the shows will gather the biggest audience ever to see an artist in one  --- ahmadinejad: any nation attacking iran would regret it  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - president mahmoud ahmadinejad said on sunday any country that dared to attack iran would "deeply regret" such a move. ahmadinejad, who often rails against the west, was speaking at a news conference a day after the interior ministry said he had won a landslide election victory against a moderate politician advocating detente with the west. iran's refusal to halt nuclear work the west suspects is aimed at making bombs, a charge tehran denies, has sparked persistent speculation that israel or the united states might strike at the country's nuclear facilities. "who dares to attack iran? who even dares to think about it?" ahmadinejad said in response to a ques --- south africa need a victory to win back support  johannesburg, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa need to beat iraq in the opening match of the confederations cup on sunday to regain the confidence of their fans, midfielder steven pienaar said on friday. "this is our opportunity to win back the supporters and a great opportunity to show our potential," he said ahead of the group a clash in johannesburg. the everton player, who has trained sparingly this week because of a bout of gastro-flu, hopes to continue the form he showed in the second half of the english premier league campaign. "i had a good season and i hope i can carry on where i left off and do well for my country. it is about time," he told a news conference in soweto. "the guys are more relaxed. we realise we have a job to do but we won't be playing under any pressure. "we don't want to talk about the world cup just yet, our aim is to do well in this tournament and to leave our mark. we want to make them aware of what south africa are made of." south africa's slump in form over the years has seen attendances at national team matches decline. south africa host the two-week confederations cup from sunday. they are also paired with new zealand and european champions spain in their opening round group. the eight-team tournament serves as a test event ahead of next year's world cup finals in south africa --- growth target could be set higher: cpd  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)  the target gdp growth 5.5 percent, in the proposed budget of 2009-10 is 'surprising', said economic think tank centre for policy dialogue (cpd). the growth target was not clear and it could have been set higher in the changed situation under an elected government. "in spite of many setbacks 5.9 percent gdp was achieved last year," cpd's honourable fellow and former executive director debopriya bhattacharya said in a post-budget discussion, pointing out the weaknesses. "it indicates that we are moving backward," he added. "from that perspective the budget is not ambitious, rather it is far from reality," said bhattacharya. finance minister ama muhith proposed tk 1,14000 crore budget on thursday. the annual outlay for 2009-10 fiscal year starting on july 1 saw a 15 percent rise on the previous year to turn the wheel on the economy. cpd put emphasis on five sectors to implement budget in the next fiscal year. these are keeping up agricultural development, export earning and remittance in the midst of global recession; increasing revenue earning; reviving developmental efforts and keeping administration running. however, cpd has found some innovativeness in the budget, including infrastructural renovation in case of financial planning, reviving midterm planning, district-wise budget. but it thinks there is a lack of transparency in some sectors in case of allocation. cpd executive director mustafizur rahman was also present at the discussion at brac centre at mohakhali. b --- market wants 'more issues, not just funds'  rohan ziad bdnews24.com business correspondent dhaka, june 15 (bdnews24.com)supply of quality shares, including those of state-owned enterprises, is more important for the capital market than raising liquidity by allowing 'black money' in, say analysts. they say the option to pour in previously undisclosed funds would lure many to invest in shares but will not yield any long-term benefit, and may instead lead to overheating of the market. after repeated demands from many quarters, including the stock market, finance minister ama muhith's, presenting his maiden budget last week, extended the facility for 'whitening black money' for an unprecedented three years. muhith offers the opportunity to legalise undisclosed money "with no questions asked", with a 10 percent tax levied and provided the money is invested in the capital market, industry and infrastructure. the budget has not cut the rate of corporate tax, however, despite calls from stock market players. sec advisory committee member abu ahmed said that the offer to invest undisclosed money might perk up the market. "but, there is a possibility of 'black money' holders keeping back their funds right now and instead investing only during the last phase of the three-year period," he told bdnews24.com. the consequence would be a loss in revenue for the government, said ahmed, a professor of economics at the university of dhaka. meanwhile, increased liquidity in the stock market will not contribute that much to the country's industrialisation process. "some shareholders may be benefited if the secondary market sees a boost but it will not foster industry," said zaid bakht, an economic analyst at bangladesh institute of development studies. "the decision to cut duty on raw materials for local industry, on the other hand will very beneficial," added bakht, who is a member of the sec's advisory committee. stockbrokers fear that inflow of huge funds without supply of new issues might lead to overpricing of issues. "once black money starts to pour in, demand will shoot up for sharesbad news in a shallow market like ours," said investment consultant bashir ahmed of brokerage firm stocks & bonds. salahuddin ahmed khan, a former ceo of dhaka stock exchange agrees. "the issue for the bangladeshi capital market is not lack of liquidity but the supply of shares." "the option to invest black money may perk up the marketbut what the market now needs is supply of fresh and quality scrips." ahmed, who now teaches finance at the university of dhaka, suggested measures to more private as well as government entities to be listed. the finance minister, in his budget speech, said the country's capital market witnessed a significant rise following offloading of soes. but muhith said the coming year might not see the same. "i would like to mention that in the next fiscal year it may not be possible to disinvest any soe considering the uncertain environment," said muhith. --- growth rate 5.5-6%, muhith clarifies: corrected  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)finance minister a m a muhith has said the budget he proposed on thursday set a target of 5.5 to 6.0 percent gdp growth, not 5.5 percent, for fy2009-10. he pointed out a few corrections at the start of a post-budget press briefing at national economic council auditorium in the capital on friday. he laid out the tk 114,000 crore budget in the parliament amid an opposition boycott. "in section 80 of page 24 of the budget speech i had said in the face of global recession our economic growth will be 5.5 to 6.0 percent. "but the media reported that the economic growth rate for the next fiscal year has been set at 5.5 percent. muhith said he had said in the speech that that the growth would hover between 5.5 and 6.0 percent. the copy of the budget text made available to the media by the parliament secretariat on thursday said the growth will be 5.5 percent in the next year and go upward in the next two years. the finance minister further said that the section 24 of page 7 should read the foreign exchange reserve stood at $ 6.88 billion, instead of $ 6.52 billion, until may 3, 2009. section 324 of page 84 said the existing tax holiday provision, which will be in force up to the year 2012, will not be extended. it should read 2011, instead of 2012. again, section 321 of page 82 said any mobile-phone company transforms into publicly-traded company by offloading a minimum 10 percent of its paid-up capital on the stock exchange, the budget proposes 35 percent tax on that company. muhith said it was in fact 37.5 percent, not 35 percent. bdn --- tehran rocked by protests  by parisa hafezi and fredrik dahl tehran, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - thousands of people clashed with police saturday after the disputed election victory of president mahmoud ahmadinejad sparked the biggest protests in tehran since the 1979 islamic revolution. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei told iranians to respect ahmadinejad's victory in an presidential election that his closest challenger described as a "dangerous charade." ahmadinejad's triumph in friday's vote upset expectations that reformist candidate mirhossein mousavi might win the race. up to 3,000 mousavi supporters took part in the protests. in one place, some chanted, "what happened to our vote?." others chanted anti-ahmadinejad slogans, bringing traffic to a standstill. "we are iranians too," and "mousavi is our president," they shouted. interior minister sadeq mahsouli, an ahmadinejad ally, declared the president had been re-elected to a second four-year term with 62.6 percent of the vote, against 33.7 percent for mousavi, in a record 85 percent turnout. mousavi protested against what he called violations and vote-rigging during the election. interior ministry officials rejected the allegations. mousavi said members of his election headquarters had been beaten "with batons, wooden sticks and electrical rods." in one incident police on motorcycles beat mousavi backers who were staging a sit-in protest at the capital's vanak square. at tehran university, some 100 police with helmets and shields used tear and pepper gas as they chased 300-400 students, who were chanting: "people: support us, support us." shops in the area were closed and small fires were burning on the street. police later cordoned off the university area and were attacking student demonstrators, witnesses said. a witness also said he had heard shots fired near a busy street in northern tehran but it was not clear who was shooting and why. khamenei, iran's top authority, told defeated candidates and their supporters to avoid "provocative behavior." "the chosen and respected president is the president of all the iranian nation and everyone, including yesterday's competitors, must unanimously support and help him," khamenei said in a statement read on state television. mousavi, a veteran of the 1979 islamic revolution, protested against what he said were many obvious election violations. "i'm warning i will not surrender to this dangerous charade. the result of such performance by some officials will jeopardize the pillars of the islamic republic and will establish tyranny," mousavi said in a statement made available to reuters. mousavi urged senior clerics in iran's shi'ite religious center of qom to speak out. "today all the ways to preserve our rights are closed. silence of the ulema and grand ayatollahs may create more harm than fixing voting," he said in a statement on his website. nuclear dispute iranian and western analysts said ahmadinejad's re-election would disappoint western powers aiming to convince iran to halt a nuclear program they suspect is aimed at making bombs, and could further complicate efforts by u.s. president barack obama to reach out to tehran. "it doesn't augur well for an early and peaceful settlement of the nuclear dispute," said mark fitzpatrick at london's international institute for strategic studies. u.s. secretary of state hillary clinton said the united states was monitoring the outcome of the election closely and hoped the results reflected the will of the iranian people. a bitter campaign generated intense excitement inside iran and revealed deep divisions between those backing ahmadinejad and those pushing for social and political change. ahmadinejad accused his rivals of undermining the islamic republic by advocating detente with the west. mousavi said the president's "extremist" foreign policy had humiliated iranians. friday night, before official results emerged, mousavi had claimed to be the "definite winner." he said many people had been unable to vote and ballot papers were lacking. he also accused authorities of blocking text messaging, with which his campaign tried to reach young, urban voters. saturday, iran's students' news agency isna quoted tehran's deputy prosecutor general mahmoud salarkia as saying 10 people had been detained for "agitating public opinion through websites and blogs by propagating untruthful reports." ahmadinejad draws most of his support from rural areas and poorer big city neighborhoods. mousavi enjoys strong backing in wealthier urban centres, especially among women and the young. two other candidates attracted only minimal support. ahmadinejad, 52, won power four years ago, vowing to revive the values of the islamic revolution. he has expanded the nuclear program, which iran says is only for electricity generation, and stirred international outrage by denying the holocaust and calling for israel to be wiped off the  --- midnight bid to grab gulshan ave home foiled  liton haider bdnews24.com chief crime reporter dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)armed intruders, claiming to be from a private tv station, sought to forcibly occupy a valuable gulshan avenue property in the small hours of wednesday morning by dislodging an octogenarian couple from their decades-old home. the gang, alleging "atn bangla owns the property", broke into the home of retired civil servant abdul qaiyum at around 1.30am and tried to overpower the night guards, but faced stiff resistance from neighbours' security men. police arrested 11 of the assailants, but at least four managed to escape. a number of witnesses said police appeared "reluctant to respond". qaiyum's nephew ruhul quader told bdnews24.com, at the scene, he was woken by a call just after 1.30am. "my cousin shireen (alam cowdhury, qaiyum's daughter) was screaming for help. she said 10-15 armed intruders had broken into the family house with knives and iron bars." ruhul said when he got to the house at 69 gulshan avenue the front gate was smashed and a maroon microbus, with number plates removed, was parked in the driveway. the attackers had entered the house by breaking down the doors. "they were holding my uncle in the front seat of the vehicle and were trying to force my aunt to get in too." some of the men had black cloths covering their faces, he said. but neighbours and nearby security guards had gathered by then to confront the attackers, chasing them down. four of the raiders were detained by guards from the house next door, belonging businessman abdul awal mintoo, a former fbcci president. the other seven were overpowered inside the qaiyum house compound. police eventually arrested them. "four still managed to escape in the microbus right in front of police," said ruhul. at around 5am, bdnews24.com chief crime correspondent liton haider spoke to a frail qaiyum. after a three-hour ordeal, the eighty-seven year old had only the strength to say: "we bought this house and have been living in it since 1970. how could this happen." his wife mahbuba qaiyum was too upset to speak. the qaiyum family says a general diary had already been registered with the gulshan police by atn bangla, which claimed the house belonged to the tv station. "the attackers came with a huge signboard," said a neighbour. the board, still propped up in the driveway hours later, read: 'atn bangla have bought and own this plot 3ws(a)69'. qaiyum, who began his civil service career in the colonial era, retired as chairman of biwta in the pakistan days and is widely respected among his neighbours, a number of whom alleged police complicity in the whole affair. "they were refusing to arrest the 11 already tied up by the guards," alleged one. "and when my son called the oc, the officer was clearly reluctant to respond, pretending he did not know the address," the neighbour said. "this is absolutely unacceptable ... how can this happen in the middle of the night? and on gulshan avenue," fumed another neighbour who had witnessed the night's events. "this is daylight robbery in the middle of the night," a qaiyum relative said. no one from atn bangla could be reached immediately for comment --- gas leak postpones space shuttle launch  cape canaveral, florida, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - nasa canceled plans to launch space shuttle endeavour on a construction mission to the international space station on saturday due to a potentially dangerous hydrogen leak. the leak was found as technicians neared completion of the loading of 500,000 gallons (1.9 million liters) of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen into the shuttle's fuel tank for a launch attempt at 7:17 a.m. edt. "there's no way we could have continued," said nasa launch director mike leinbach. "hydrogen is a very volatile commodity." the problem is similar to a hydrogen leak that occurred while shuttle discovery was being prepared for launch in march. nasa discovered a problem with a line that vents gaseous hydrogen from the fuel tank. technicians replaced the faulty equipment and the shuttle was successfully launched four days later. nasa is tentatively retargeting endeavour's launch for wednesday, but that would mean the agency would have to delay launch of its robotic moon probe, the debut mission of a new exploration initiative aimed at returning astronauts to the moon by 2020. both the shuttle and the lunar reconnaissance orbiter's atlas rocket use safety and support services from cape canaveral air force station, which needs two days to configure equipment for different launch vehicles. lro is slated to fly on wednesday. "we had pretty much agreed ahead of time that we would not bump them off the range," said mike moses, the shuttle manager at kennedy space center. "but nothing is a foregone decision." nasa had reserved three days for launch attempts of lro, which also includes a payload designed to crash into a crater on the moon to look for signs of water. next launch window if lro misses its launch window next week, the flight would have to be rescheduled for the end of the month, which in turn would impact other spacecraft scheduled to fly on future atlas rockets. "there are a lot of factors in play," moses said. endeavour is carrying a japanese-built porch that will be installed on the station's $2.4 billion kibo complex, japan's primary contribution to the $100 billion station program. the lab includes a robot arm and a small airlock so science experiments can be installed outside the station and retrieved without the need for spacewalks by crew members. endeavour also is carrying laboratory racks, experiments, supplies and spare parts that will be stored aboard the outpost in preparation for when the shuttle is no longer flying. nasa has eight shuttle missions remaining to complete construction of the station. it plans to retire the three-ship fleet at the end of 2010. the endeavour crew plans to spend 12 days at the station and conduct five spacewalks to install the porch, replace batteries and tackle a long list of maintenance tasks. the mission is nasa's first since the station's live-aboard crew was expanded to six members from three last month. when the shuttle crew arrives, it will bring the total number of people aboard the space station to a record 13. --- 28 houses to be reclaimed from 'influentials'  dhaka, june 10(bdnews24.com)  legal steps are being taken by the government to get back 28 houses allotted in the past to influential political leaders under real and fake names, state minister for housing and works abdul mannan khan said on wednesday. "the ministry will take back the houses as quickly as possible," khan told reporters after meeting german ambassador frank mayke. he said the ambassador requested him to hand over house nw(i)-6 at gulshan for the german embassy, as has been long-allotted. the house could not be handed over to the embassy because of legal tangles, the minister said. haris chowdhury, political secretary to former prime minister khaleda zia, at one point took possession of the residence from one fakir mahbub anam, though the house now lies vacant. "the embassy will be allotted another property if this one cannot be given," the minister said. in return, the german embassy will make similar arrangement in berlin for the bangladesh high commission, he said. on the allotments of plots at purbachal, the minister said 65,000 applications were filed for 6,000 plots. "it is very difficult to select 6,000 eligible applicants. but the government will complete the allocation in a transparent manner," he said. "the prime minister has given a special directive in this matter," he added. bdne --- french submarine begins black box crash search  paris, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a french submarine with advanced sonar equipment began searching on wednesday for the flight recorders of an air france airliner that crashed into the atlantic last week, the french military said. the nuclear-powered submarine emeraude was sent to the area to hunt the "black box" recorders, which may help explain the disaster and which are believed to lie on the ocean floor. investigators face a long search for clues to what went wrong when the airbus a330 jet disappeared on a flight from rio de janeiro to paris killing all 228 people on board, french military spokesman christophe prazuck said. "up to now, the time frame for the search for victims and debris has been of the order of days or a week. here, at the very least, it's going to be of the order of weeks or months," he told lci television. the air france flight is believed to have run into trouble when it hit a violent storm midway over the atlantic ocean and potential problems with speed sensors have become one of the focal points of the inquiry. but other causes have not been ruled out and on wednesday, the web site of the french weekly l'express said that two potentially suspect names had been identified on the passenger list by french intelligence services. it said the names "correspond to people known for their links to islamist terrorism," but a french military spokesman said he could not confirm the report. authorities have seen no credible claims of responsibility and have said the crash was unlikely to have been caused by an attack but they have not excluded one entirely. search in the search zone, where scattered pieces of debris including a large section from the aircraft tail have been recovered, vessels are trying to comb a rugged area of the ocean floor, thousands of metres below the surface. prazuck said searchers had taken two weeks to locate the black box recorders after the crash of a boeing 737 at sharm el sheikh in egypt in 2004, despite much easier conditions. "that aircraft crashed very close to the coast, there was no doubt about where the accident happened and it took 15 days to recover the black box," he said. "here the accident happened 1,000 kilometres from the coast. the situation is very complex." he said the emeraude was searching an area of 36 square kilometres and the search zone would be changed daily. if the recorders are found, miniature submarines from the pourquoi pas, a french exploration and survey ship also deployed to the area, could be used to bring them in. brazilian military search teams have recovered 41 bodies and moved some of them to the archipelago of fernando de noronha off brazil's northeastern coast, which is being used as a base for the search operations. the doomed plane sent 24 automated messages in its final minutes on june 1, detailing a rapid series of systems failures. the speed sensors that gauge how fast an aircraft is flying have become the focus of the investigation after some of the messages showed they provided inconsistent data to the pi --- symonds loses australia contract for next season  sydney, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the prospects of andrew symonds rekindling his international career were dealt another blow on friday when he was officially stripped of his playing contract for next season. symonds was one of 25 elite australian players offered playing contracts for the 2009-10 season, starting next month, but the offer was revoked after he was sent home from the twenty20 world cup in england for disciplinary reasons. australia's national selectors announced on friday they were offering the contract intended for symonds to fast bowler shaun tait, who was considered unlucky to miss out on the original roster. "with cricket australia now withdrawing its previous contract offer to andrew symonds, shaun tait has moved into a position where he has been offered a ca contract offer for 2009-10 under the rankings system ca uses to offer contracts to players," australia's chairman of selectors andrew hilditch said in a statement. "shaun at his best is an important part of our one-day international and twenty20 make-up and i'm sure he will now seize the opportunity presented to him with this offer of a further australian contract." local media have speculated that symonds would soon announce his retirement from international cricket and quit australia to focus on the lucrative indian premier league after he was sent home in disgrace for an alcohol-related incident in london. symonds has not yet made any decisions about his future but told reporters on his arrival home that he would make an announcement soon. the 33-year-old has been dogged by off-field problems during his international career and only recently rejoined the team after undergoing counseling for alcohol problems. symonds revealed last year that he had started drinking heavily to cope with the pressure of constantly being in the spotlight as a professional sportsman. australia officials said the latest incident was relatively minor but they had no alternative other than to send him home because of his long record of ill-discipline --- south africa all set to start party against iraq  johannesburg, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa have no injury worries and are all set to "get the party started" when they face asian champions iraq in the opening match of the confederations cup, coach joel santana said on saturday. the 61-year-old brazilian told an eve-of-match news conference at ellis park stadium that all his players were fit and despite picking up a knock in training on saturday, playmaker teko modise would face iraq in their opening group a match. "we had a few knocks and bruises this morning, but nothing serious," he said. "we are now ready and want to start this party as soon as possible. we know there are great expectations on us because we are the hosts, but we are optimistic we can do well and start with a good performance against iraq." aaron mokoena, south africa's skipper, said he was beginning to detect the start of a "new vibe" in the country with the imminent start of the eight-team tournament, the test event ahead of next year's world cup finals. "we feel that mood already, mokoena said. "for us players it is so encouraging to do know that so many people are coming to the game and driving to training, you can really see that the vibe is starting and the mood is there." he also felt that south african president jacob zuma's presence at the squad's training session on saturday had galvanised the players. "the fact the president was there made our day, to be honest," mokoena said. "i remember a couple of months ago he came to watch our game against equatorial guinea and his being there was an extra boost for us. that he took time from his busy schedule this morning to come and address the players and wish us the best of luckit meant a whole lot for us. "hopefully tomorrow we can take that into the game and come out with a victory. to have five minutes with the president meant a lot to us." south africa need a win over iraq as their slump in form over the years has seen attendances at national team matches decline. they have also slipped to 72nd in fifa's world rankings. already eliminated from next year's african cup of nations in angola, south africa will need the competitive experience of the confederations cup before the real thing begins next june --- bnp seeks int'l censure on tipaimukh dam  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  bnp is urging the international community to speak out against india's construction of the tipaimukh dam, saying it is a 'death trap' for bangladesh. the opposition party also urged the government once more to protest in strongest possible terms against the dam to the indian government. "the tipaimukh dam is a death trap for the people of bangladesh. we appeal to the international community to ask india stop construction," bnp secretary general khandaker delwar hossain told a press conference on saturday. "the awami league government must protest against the move immediately, or bnp along with the people will be forced to take whatever action is necessary to stop it," said delwar. meanwhile, speaker abdul hamid has again asked the opposition to return to parliament to discuss all issues of national importance. "after everything, i request all opposition members to join parliament immediately and discuss, before the nation, serious issues like the budget," the speaker said saturday. the opposition has refused to join the parliament since the start of the budget session, as it refused for most of the maiden session, over an ongoing seating dispute. 'blame game' former water resources minister and bnp vice president hafizuddin ahmed, in a written statement saturday, said the government must act in the country's best interests in the tipaimukh dam issue instead of playing the 'blame game'. he said all parties except the ruling awami league had protested against the move. party chief khaleda zia had been protesting against the issue from the very beginning, said hafiz, who was at one time ousted by khaleda from the party as a 'reformist'. "the bnp government during its first term protested to the indian government against the dam twice on april 16 and may 18 in 1992," he said. the former minister ruled out the statement by al spokesperson syed ashraful islam that discussion with india about the tipaimukh dam had begun during a previous bnp administration. "this is not true, it is a politically motivated statement," said hafiz. he said india conceived the tipaimukh dam over the cross-boundary river barak in the state of manipur before the 1970's. "after the formation of the bangladesh-india joint river commission, the two countries discussed the issue in its first (june 25 and 26, 1972), seventh (february 28-march 2, 1974), eighth (june 6-12, 1974), tenth (august 29-september 2, 1974) and thirteenth (june 19-21, 1975) during none of which did the awami league government oppose the project," the bnp leader said. hafiz said the fourteenth meeting of the commission (january 20-24, 1978) decided that an expert committee of bangladesh and india would present a scrutiny report on the prposed dam. "but the expert committee did not hold any meeting." he said after 1975, successive governments of bangladesh opposed the proposed dam and fulertal barrage (some 30 kms from tipaimukh dam), considering probable harm to the country. "in 1988, the bangladesh government requested the indian government to stop withdrawing water from the barak river and suppressing information on the project." "but the indian government did not reply," he said. the former minister said bangladesh sent a letter to india opposing the project on august 11, 2003 (during bnp's term) but again no response came from the indian government. india in the 35th and 36th meetings of the joint river commission assured that they would discuss with bangladesh whether to withdraw water by constructing any structure on the river barak. "but there was no meeting of the commission in the last four years." serious threat hafiz said the construction of the dam would pose a serious threat to the environment and public life. the construction of the dam is an obvious breach of the 9th article of the farakka accord signed in 1966 and against international law, he said. he asked the government to solve the problem and stop playing the "blame game". delwar said: "awami league always remained quiet on the question of the dam as they act in the interests of india." saturday's press conference at the national press club was the first joint public appearance of delwar and hafiz since the 1/11 changeover in 2007. b --- growth, inflation seen to fall  dhaka june 11 (bdnews24.com)finance minister ama muhith, who laid out his tk 114,000 crore budget on thursday, sees the economy slowing and inflation falling. in his budget speech thursday, he set a target of 5.5 percent gdp growth for fy2009-10. growth rate for the current fy2008-09 was 5.88 percent, which fell short of the targeted 6.5 percent, and marked a fall from the previous year's 6.2 percent. with falling commodity and fuel prices, along with favourable production conditions, annual average inflation would come down to 6.5 percent from 7 percent, said muhith. on a point to point basis inflation in july of the current fiscal year was 10.8 percent which fell to 5.4 percent in april 2009. average rate of inflation for the year was 9.9 percent in fy 2007-08. the finance minister presented the first budget of the new government in parliament thursday, with a prposed outlay of tk 1,13,819 crore. it comes in the back drop of global recession and the awami league's expansive electoral pledges. prime minister sheikh hasina was present in the house, while opposition leader khaleda zia remained absent as bnp has been boycotting the budget session over a seating dispute. --- gul joins pakistan fast bowling elite  london, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - umar gul confirmed on saturday his right to stand among the pakistan pace bowling giants with the first five-wicket haul by any bowler in a twenty20 international. gul, 25, captured five for six from three overs as pakistan thrashed new zealand by six wickets in their super eight match and was denied a fourth over and the chance for more wickets when the kiwis were all out for 99. gul now owns three of the best top 10 analyses in twenty20 cricket to go with his 76 wickets at 31.34 from 18 tests. new zealand captain daniel vettori said saturday's match was the first time he had witnessed reverse swing, the art perfected by gul's pakistani predecessors, in a twenty20 match. "i have never seen anybody reverse the ball after 12 overs," vettori told a news conference. "i don't know of anybody in twenty20 cricket who has made the ball reverse." pakistan introduced reverse swing to test cricket through sarfraz nawaz and imran khan in the 1970s and early 1980s. the skill of making an old and battered ball move in the air in the opposite direction to conventional swing was developed into an art form in the following decade by their successors wasim akram and waqar younis. it has now been copied throughout the world and was instrumental in england's 2005 ashes triumph over australia. pakistan captain younus khan said gul, the sixth and final bowler used on saturday, had the perfect action for reverse swing and had been given the ball after it had been knocked about on the field and sent flying into the crowd. "he has pace and reverse swing," younus said. "this isn't the first time." gul had played only nine first-class matches when called up to the pakistan side after his country's disappointing performance in the 2003 world cup. he is fast without possessing express pace, gets bounce off the pitch and, as well as reversing the ball, bowls an excellent yorker. before saturday gul already had the second best figures in twenty20 cricket with four for eight against australia in dubai this year. he was the leading bowler at the first twenty20 world cup in south africa two years ago. "the yorker and changes in pace are the two big weapons in this cricket," he told the cricinfo website recently. "it is a batsman's game, but there is so much of it now that there is an opportunity to really hone these two skills. --- cambodia agrees to return bomb plotters to thailand  phnom penh, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - cambodian prime minister hun sen agreed on friday to allow two thai muslims convicted of plotting attacks on western embassies in phnom penh in 2004 to serve the rest of their prison terms in thailand. the deal was agreed during a meeting on friday between hun sen and his thai counterpart abhisit vejjajiva, information minister khieu kanharith told reuters. the two thais and a cambodian, who were linked to the southeast asian militant group jemaah islamiah (ji), were given life sentences by a cambodian court in december 2004 for plotting to bomb the us and british embassies in phnom penh. chiming abdul azi, muhammadyalludin mading and cambodian sman esma el were found guilty of colluding to attack the missions along with hambali, the suspected ji mastermind of the 2002 bali bombings that killed 202 people. hambali remains in us detention since being handed over by thailand after his capture in the central city of ayutthaya in 2003. kanharith said several cambodians serving prison sentences in thailand would be returned as part of the deal. "hun sen told his thai counterpart that he would send the two convicted thais to serve their punishment in thailand and vice-versa," he said. kanharith said the transfers could take some time because thailand and cambodia have no extradition agreement. the two leaders also pledged to settle a long-running dispute over the 900-year-old preah vihear temple, which has been a source of tension between the two countries for generations. two thai soldiers were killed and nine wounded in april in a clash with cambodian troops near the temple, which the international court of justice awarded to cambodia in 1962, without ruling on the ownership of the disputed land around it. "they gave assurances that armed conflicts would not take place at the border near the temple," ieng sophalleth, a cambodian government spokesman, told reporters. hun sen and abhisit also said they would work to settle a maritime dispute over a potentially oil and gas-rich patch of the gulf of thailand, which both countries have claimed jurisdiction over, sophalleth  --- pakistan's zardari vows to fight taliban to the end  islamabad, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistani president asif ali zardari said on saturday the taliban wanted to take over the country and vowed to fight against militancy "to the end." militants have launched a wave of bomb attacks in recent days in response to an army offensive in the swat region, to the northwest of the capital, islamabad. rising violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states about its commitment to the global campaign against militancy. "we will continue this war to the end," zardari said in a televised address to the nation broadcast after 1 a.m. (1900 gmt on friday). "this war has the support of parliament, the support of the political parties as well as the people of pakistan," he said. in the latest bomb attacks, a prominent anti-taliban cleric who had condemned suicide bombings was killed on friday in a suicide attack at his office in the city of lahore. two other people were killed and 11 wounded. also on friday, four people were killed and more than 20 were wounded when a car bomber attacked a mosque next to an army depot in the northwestern garrison town of nowshera. zardari said the moderate cleric, sarfraz naeemi, who was an outspoken critic of suicide attacks, and the other people killed in the bombings were martyrs. the taliban claimed to act in the name of islam but had nothing to do with the religion, he said. "these people want to capture the institutions of pakistan by spreading terrorism and by intimidating the people. they have killed thousands of innocent people," said zardari, the widower of assassinated former prime minister benazir bhutto. the offensive in swat has broad public support and the bomb attacks appear to be hardening opinion against the militants. zardari said the people were behind the armed forces and he announced an increase in pay for soldiers. security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting in swat and in recent days have been attacking militants in several other parts of the northwest. pakistan is a vital ally of the united states as it struggles to stabilize neighboring afghanistan and defeat al qaeda --- un powers agree on draft north korea sanctions  united nations, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - world powers on wednesday agreed to expand sanctions to punish north korea for its recent nuclear test and weapons program, as russia said it expected the north to launch another provocative missile test. the draft un sanctions resolution, written by the united states and endorsed by the four other permanent security council members, plus japan and south korea, was discussed at a closed-door meeting of the 15-nation security council. "if all goes well we're expecting a vote on the resolution on friday," a un diplomat told reuters on condition of anonymity. delegations will now send the draft to their capitals to see if it is acceptable. the agreement ended more than two weeks of closed-door negotiations. the united states, britain, france, japan and south korea all demanded tough sanctions against pyongyang for its may nuclear test, but russia and china held out for a milder resolution to avoid provoking north korea. the draft "condemns in the strongest terms" north korea's nuclear test last month and "demands that (it) not conduct any further nuclear test or any launch using ballistic missile technology." the end result reflected compromises to satisfy chinese and russian objections. beijing and moscow had opposed language in earlier drafts requiring all countries to inspect north korea ships carrying suspicious cargo that might violate a partial u.n. trade and arms embargo. in the latest version, the security council "calls upon" states to inspect suspicious sea, air and land cargoes but does not demand it. however, the draft resolution would require countries to deny fuel to any suspicious north korean ships and direct them to dock at "an appropriate and convenient port." once docked, the draft says local authorities would conduct a "required inspection" and must seize and destroy any cargo transported in violation of un sanctions. russia's un ambassador vitaly churkin explained this point, saying that for the country controlling the port, "it is your responsibility and you are being called upon by the security council to do this inspection." new missile launch? north korea has angered the region and countries beyond in the past few weeks with missile launches, threats to attack the south and a nuclear test, prompting u.s. and south korean forces to raise a military alert on the peninsula to one of its highest since the 1950-53 korean war. cranking up tension, russia's military said it had information on plans for another missile launch. "we have certain information about the type and characteristics of the missile. however, we do not have accurate data on the timing," interfax news agency quoted a senior military source as saying. the united states had also been pushing for a mandatory expansion of financial sanctions against pyongyang. arms-related financing is banned, while the draft urges, but does not require, states to avoid any new financial deals with north korea except for humanitarian or development projects. the resolution also expands a partial un arms embargo to ban the export of all weapons by north korea but allows pyongyang to continue purchasing small arms, provided such sales are reported to the united nations. "this sanctions regime, if passed by the security council, will bite, and bite in a meaningful way," us ambassador to the united nations susan rice told reporters. rice added that a total ban on north korean arms exports would cut off a significant source of revenue for pyongyang. but requiring north korea's consent to search a ship cut into the sanctions' effectiveness. "we're talking about dentures and not actual teeth," said korea economic institute president jack pritchard, a former us envoy on north korea. several diplomats said the latest text, which could undergo further adjustments before it is approved by the full council, was a watered-down version of an initially tougher draft aimed at expanding the sanctions imposed on pyongyang after its first nuclear test in october 2006. until recently, those sanctions had been widely ignored and unenforced. the new draft urges countries to implement the 2006 sanctions spelled out in resolution 1718. analysts in washington said the effectiveness of the new sanctions, as in previous measures, depended on if china were angry enough to enforced the measures seriously. "china's anger regarding north korea is a function of the degree to which they see north korea really upsetting the status quo and stability in the region," said victor cha of the center for strategic and international studies. russia's "heavy heart" chinese envoy liu zhenmin made clear to reporters that beijing, the nearest north korea has to a major ally, was satisfied with the draft. "i hope countries will endorse the text," he said. churkin said the draft was "adequate and balanced," but that moscow was backing sanctions "with a heavy heart." with russia and china on board, western countries hope for a unanimous vote to send a signal of international unity. council members vietnam and libya, however, are seen as potential hurdles to a unanimous vote, western diplomats say. south korea's defense minister lee sang-hee spoke about the heightened tensions on the korean peninsula, linking north's threats and flurry of military activity to kim jong-il paving the way for his son to succeed him. "kim jong-il is bloodshot in the eyes trying to build a succession plan to pass on power by creating tension ... while ignoring the desperate plight of his starving people and the impoverished state of the economy," he said in an address to troops, according to a military aide on wednesday. "the north korean regime is an unethical, irresponsible and inhumane group which puts its own survival ahead of the lives and happiness of the people. --- us supreme court clears path for chrysler sale  washington/detroit, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the us supreme court on tuesday cleared the way for the sale of chrysler llc to italy's fiat, while general motors began to revamp its widely criticized board by naming former at&t inc chief executive ed whitacre as chairman. in a victory for the obama administration driving the restructuring of bankrupt chrysler, the court denied a request from indiana pension funds to delay the sale to a group led by fiat, a union-aligned trust and the us and canadian governments. the white house welcomed the high court's action. "we are delighted that the chrysler-fiat alliance can now go forward, allowing chrysler to re-emerge as a competitive and viable automaker," said a white house official, speaking on condition of anonymity. indiana state treasurer richard mourdock said in an emailed statement he was "disappointed" with the verdict. "the future ramifications of the court's decision on the capital markets remain to be seen," mourdock said. a spokeswoman for chrysler had no immediate comment. according to a person familiar with chrysler's plans, the company is aiming to close the sale early wednesday morning. the person declined to be named because the plans are not yet public. "today's decision is good news for the country," said u.s. representative gary peters of michigan, whose district includes chrysler headquarters. "chrysler's swift emergence from bankruptcy has put the company in position to become more globally competitive." erich merkle, independent auto analyst based in grand rapids, michigan, said the choices were "approval of the sale or liquidation." moreover, merkle said the court's decision to stand back was good news for gm, which is using a similar quick-sale strategy to facilitate its government-backed trip through bankruptcy. "the stakes here were immense. both gm and chrysler need to get out of bankruptcy. they can't stay in," merkle said, noting that chrysler still had to demonstrate viability once it steps out of court protection. john casesa, managing partner at casesa shapiro group, said at a conference at oakland university in rochester, michigan, on tuesday that both gm and chrysler will be salvaged but it is unclear if they can be saved. "the government can't assure long-term viability," he said, adding that chrysler will shrink under fiat ownership and gm's future is hard to forecast. the supreme court decision followed a one-day stay issued by justice ruth bader ginsburg that prevented the chrysler/fiat deal from closing on monday as planned. the fiat option was the only one pursued to save chrysler from collapse. the pension funds said the bankruptcy and appeals courts are moving too fast and contended that chrysler's sale would unlawfully reward unsecured creditors ahead of secured lenders. they also said that the plan amounted to an illegal reorganization and that the treasury department overstepped its legal authority by using financial bailout funds for chrysler when congress had intended the money for banks. the treasury has dedicated more than $12 billion for chrysler and roughly $50 billion for gm as part of the government's bailout of stricken us automakers. chrysler sought bankruptcy april 30. gm entered court protection june 1. separately in new york, chrysler won bankruptcy court approval to cut 789 dealerships, a quarter of its showrooms, in move that drew an angry response from a group of senate lawmakers. gm names new chair earlier on tuesday, gm named whitacre to become chairman of the reorganized automaker when it emerges from bankruptcy under us government oversight. whitacre, an engineer by training who guided texas-based southwestern bell through a decade of transformative mergers, will take over as chairman when a new gm is launched out of bankruptcy, the company said. [id:nn09173429] "he is coming into an industry that is accustomed to heavy regulations. he knows how to grow a company. he gives a lot of credibility to gm's restructuring," said stephen spivey, an auto analyst with frost & sullivan. gm, which filed for bankruptcy on june 1, plans a quick sale process that would allow a much smaller automaker to emerge from court protection in as little as 60 days under the majority government ownership. former gm chairman and chief executive rick wagoner, who had staked his reputation on keeping the company out of bankruptcy, was ousted by the obama administration at the end of march. in announcing whitacre's selection, gm also confirmed that the longest-serving board members and those most closely associated with wagoner's tenure would be lea --- iraq draw with poland in confederations cup warmup  cape town, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iraq warmed up for the confederations cup with a 1-1 draw against poland in a friendly in cape town on tuesday. mahdi kareem stole in unmarked at the back post to open the scoring for the asian champions who are preparing for the eight-team tournament in south africa. iraq host south africa in sunday's opening match in johannesburg. the 53rd-minute goal was quickly followed by an excellent opportunity for a second but emad mohammed steered a close-range chance wide. poland's equaliser came from brazil-born midfielder roger guerreiro whose shot was too hard for substitute goalkeeper noor sabri and crossed the line before striker marek saganowski stooped with a header to make sure. "you're never with happy with a draw when you feel you could have won the match but it was a good outing for my players," iraq coach bora milutinovic told reporters --- capello ready to unleash walcott against andorra  london colney, england, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - winger theo walcott can play a key role in helping england beat andorra on wednesday and rack up seven wins from seven world cup qualifiers, manager fabio capello said. "theo will be important, we have to attack and width is very important," he said of the 20-year-old arsenal player who missed four months of the season through injury. "he's training very well, he needs to play to recover his best condition." england made hard work of beating andorra 2-0 in their first qualifier last september and also started slowly in kazakhstan on saturday. although they won that match 4-0, it took them 38 minutes to make the breakthrough with gareth barry's goal. capello looked furious at times during that game and said he had left the players in no doubt about his feelings afterwards. "yes, i spoke to them about mistakes, about a lot of things," he told a news conference at england's training base on tuesday. "but i think tomorrow will be a different game, we have to play in the midfield of the opponent, we have to attack." england captain john terry added: "the main thing is we get the right result. we need to get the ball wide and move the ball quickly and we should be okay." capello, hoping to sign off his first full season in charge with a much more convincing win at wembley, said his first 18 months in charge had been an important learning process for both him and his men. "this experience for me and for the players this year is very important," said the man who replaced steve mcclaren after england failed to make the finals of the 2008 european championship. "i've learned a lot and the players have also learned a lot my system, what i want them to do during games, the different styles we have played in every game. "it's the same players but we've changed it a lot. we've changed the position of the players on the pitch during the game." a victory over andorra would leave england needing just three points from their remaining three games in group six to be assured of progress to next year's finals in south africa. however, terry remained cautious saying: "let's not get too carried away at the moment. "hopefully, we can make it seven out of seven. but it's important the fans and the players and the press keep our feet firmly on the ground because we have done nothing yet". with croatia, ukraine and belarus all fighting for second place and taking points from each other, england are virtually assured already of topping the group. "i watched them (andorra) against belarus on saturday (in a 5-1 defeat) and they played 10 players in front of the box, waiting and waiting," said capello. "it will be the same, they will wait for us in front of the box. "if you score quickly it will be an easy game but i remember in barcelona in the first game against them it was 0-0 at halftime." a proposed strike by london underground train staff means there is likely to be travel chaos in the wembley area. fa officials said there would be no extra overground rail services, no extra car parking and the kickoff would remain at 19.15gmt --- uk's brown attacks opposition on spending cuts  london, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - british prime minister gordon brown accused rival conservatives on wednesday of planning big public spending cuts, trying to regain the initiative after he quelled a rebellion in his ruling labour party. brown also proposed measures to reform parliament to rebuild public trust in politics after an expenses scandal which damaged all the main parties in last week's european elections. labour, in power since 1997, was hardest him and came third. labour was destined to lose a general election due by mid-2010 long before the political turmoil of the past week and a convincing conservative victory would be the best outcome for markets, a reuters poll of economists found. one area bound to dominate the run-up to the vote will be how best to tackle record government borrowing when britain's economy starts to recover. analysts say the conservatives will act more swiftly than labour, but the opposition has yet to outline its plans. "the choice, whenever it comes, is between a government which is prepared to invest in the future and the conservative party that is going to cut," brown told parliament, seizing on remarks by a conservative health spokesman suggesting some departments face 10 percent budget cuts over 3 years from 2011. the opposition denied such swingeing cuts were planned. conservative leader david cameron said labour was also planning to reduce spending and not being honest with the public. brown is seeking to reassert his authority and galvanise his party after several senior cabinet ministers resigned, and following disastrous european elections which saw labour win its smallest share of a national vote since 1910. the debate over the future of public spending coincided with a report by managers of britain's state-funded health service that said its survival was under threat because of a looming funding crisis. british government borrowing is forecast to hit a record 175 billion pounds this year due to the recession and bank bailouts. finance minister alistair darling, who is expecting an economic recovery towards the end of the year, has said he does not expect to balance the books for nearly a decade. there have been signs that britain could be emerging from recession far soon than expected. the economy shrank 1.9 percent in the first three months of 2009, the third straight quarter of contraction, but a respected economic think tank said on wednesday the economy was already growing in april and may. public faith in the political system has slumped because of disclosures about outlandish, taxpayer-funded expenses claims by members of parliament from across the political spectrum. brown said the government would push ahead with reforming the unelected upper chamber of parliament, the house of lords and said all mps expenses would be published on the internet. his proposals were seen to be aimed at defusing calls by scottish and welsh nationalists for an early national election as the only way to clean up parliament after the scandal over politicians' expense claims. a motion tabled by the two nationalist parties, calling for the dissolution of parliament to pave the way for a national election, was defeated on thursday by 340 votes to 268, a majority of 72 --- tricky opponents await brazil and italy  johannesburg, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - likely title contenders brazil and italy both face potentially tricky opponents when they get their respective confederations cup campaigns underway on monday. world champions italy play the united states in pretoria while brazil take on the african champions egypt in bloemfontein at the start of the group b campaign. brazil, who won the world cup test event in germany four years ago, are not expected to tinker with the team that garnered six more points in world cup qualifying over the last week. wins over uruguay and paraguay have put brazil on the brink of securing qualification for the 2010 tournament and despite the continuing exertions for most of his squad at the end of a long european season, coach dunga suggested he was not about to offer any rest to key players "if you completely change the structure of the team, then the new players will not have to same confidence and the same support," he told reporters in bloemfontein. egypt will be hoping to catch the brazilians fatigued with coach hassan shehata insisting his side had the right credentials for a surprise result. "we are also a big team now and shouldn't be afraid of our opponents. we have managed to win the nations cup six times, the last two in a row," shehata said. "the egyptian team is now used to playing against big teams. in the past year, we have played several friendly matches against teams like argentina, spain and portugal." italy, who have already had a warm-up international in south africa, will be without world cup winning captain fabio cannavaro, who has a calf strain. they also continue to battle with the effects of the high altitude in pretoria and midfielder gennaro gattuso has complained about the lack of recovery time during matches. "it means we are going to have to play a little more compact. it is something we are really struggling deal with," he told reporters after a 6-0 win over a local selection in pretoria on friday. their americans opponents have twice before reached the semi-finals of the confederations cup, and are also comfortably placed to again qualify for the world cup finals --- united left with 80 million pounds dilemma  manchester, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - once manchester united have recovered from the realisation that their most prized asset no longer wants to play for them they must decide what best to do with the 80 million pounds they will get for cristiano ronaldo. it is quite a u-turn for old trafford officials that they are now willing to sell ronaldo to one of their biggest european rivals, especially as manager alex ferguson said earlier this season he "would not sell a virus" to the spanish club. then again, they have probably grown impatient with the world and european footballer of the year, particularly after he again made his feelings known that he wants a move to spain, the club he says he always dreamt of playing for. questioning ferguson's tactics after their champions league final defeat by barcelona last month would have also been hard for the scot to stomach. the world record transfer fee will certainly lessen the blow of losing ronaldo although the tricky part is how they replace a player whose goals have underpinned three successive premier league titles. some of the game's biggest names are already being linked with a move to old trafford, although quite whether ferguson gets to spend all the 80 million on players is unclear. the club's american owners could decide that the most sensible option, given the world's current economic scenario, would be to use the fee to lessen the impact of the club's debt. the last available accounts show that united owe 69 million pounds in interest for this banking year alone. that is almost the identical amount of profit the club are making on ronaldothey paid portugal's sporting just 12.2 million pounds in 2003so his sale could essentially help lessen this year's financial burden in one swoop. however, that move would undoubtedly provoke huge disappointment from united's fans who will want the money to be spent on maintaining their dominance on the pitch. as a result, united's interest in wigan athletic midfielder antonio valencia is almost certainly going to be confirmed with a bid for the player for around 15 million pounds. in addition to valencia, bayern munich's franck ribery and lyon ace karim benzema are also in united sights while tottenham hotspur winger aaron lennon is another who alex ferguson admires. however, the overwhelming priority for most of united's fans will be for the club to finally sign the popular striker carlos tevez on a long-term deal. united paid 10 million pounds two seasons ago to have the argentine on-loan but have stalled at paying the outstanding 22 million pounds to make the deal permanent. however, that now looks like small change and the club may move quickly to keep tevez - a view shared by former united striker lou macari. "i think they will now go for tevez and valencia," he told reporters on thursday. "they have the money now and they can keep tevez and that will keep supporters happy. --- australia coach tells players to focus on bahrain game  melbourne, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - australia must make sure they finish top of their group now that they have qualified for the 2010 world cup finals, coach pim verbeek told his players on tuesday. the socceroos go into wednesday's asian group one qualifier against bahrain in sydney with little to play for, having already booked their place at the finals in south africa with a scoreless draw against qatar in doha on saturday. bahrain are determined to take at least one point away from the match to keep their finals dream alive. a draw would almost certainly give the tiny gulf nation third place in the group and a playoff match against the third-placed team in group two for the chance to meet new zealand for a place at the finals. "it's not a friendly match, it's a serious world cup match and we want to be number one in our group," verbeek told the australian associated press. "until now, most of the players were still thinking and dreaming of the qatar game about the world cup, which is normal. "but the moment they are on the field, they have to start concentrating on the gameforget about tiredness, forget about trips, forget about the world cup. just think about the game." australia lead group one on goal difference ahead of second-placed japan, who have also qualified. verbeek will field an under-strength side against bahrain, with italy-based mark bresciano and carl valeri excused to return home after the qatar match. suspended captain lucas neill will also be absent, while injuries have forced out striker josh kennedy, midfielder richard garcia and defender scott chipperfield. verbeek said he would field the best team available, despite the temptation to blood new players, after being flayed by australian media for losing to china last year during an earlier round of asian qualifiers. "everybody said 'fantastic' before (the match)," the dutchman said. "then we lost 1-0 and half the country was killing me, saying 'how can you play a young team in such an important game?' --- world cup safe from global crisis  johannesburg, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - africa waited decades to host its first soccer world cup and when it comes, it's during an unprecedented global economic crisis. the recession has impacted every country, raising fears for the planet's most watched sporting event, which kicks off a year from now on june 11. yet not even the worst crisis since the great depression seems likely to deter millions of fanatical football fans or big commercial sponsors. instead, the tournament is set to give south africa a strong economic boost at its own time of need. "we are quite lucky that it (the recession) has not touched fifa, and in that regard it has not touched the world cup," thierry weil, marketing manager for the sport's governing body, told reuters. "our partners (sponsors) are strong partners. they also have suffered under the crisis, but all are clearly behind fifa and the world cup." major economies, including the united states and those in europe and south americahome of the top football nations  have dived into recession. big, household name companies and sport sponsors have floundered, and tough times have forced other sports bodies, including motor racing's formula one, to scramble to counteract dwindling incomes. south africa has sunk into its first recession in nearly two decades. while africa's biggest economy should be into recovery by next year, consumers and companies will still feel the pain of an unprecendented global contraction. "there is a risk that the success could be hindered by the lack of tourist buying power," said colen garrow, an economist with investment and financial services group brait. "but i think by then the global economy will have recovered somewhat. people may feel more confident to spend." soccer also has a special weaponmillions of loyal fans whose passion for the sport will not diminish regardless of the economic climate. relatively cheap prices in south africa and the weak rand currency may also help. tonic for growth besides, the tournament may be just the thing to lift spirits at a time of global gloom. southern sun, part of the country's biggest hotels and leisure group, said it did not foresee any drop in hotel bookings, while ticket sales are strong. applications for the first tranche of match seats are oversubscribed across the globe, even before the final line-up is decided in november. there are no more early tickets available for the opening match, the semi-finals and final. the same applies to the matches in three host citiescape town, nelspruit and pretoria. due to high demand, fifa is for now no longer making team-specific tickets available for england, brazil, argentina, australia, ireland and the netherlands. south africans love sports and have embraced other events despite budget constraints, as evidenced by the glitzy, month-long ipl twenty20 cricket tournament that was moved from india at short notice in april with great success. corporates, however, have been slow to take up package ticket offers. "the crisis, the worst in our lifetime, is of course impacting the whole economy," said peter csanadi, head of marketing for match hospitality, which manages sales for fifa. "nevertheless, the signal we get is rather a postponement of the decision and nearly all traditional buyers are still excited and plan to buy hospitality at a later stage." the world cup may be the tonic that helps not just south africa but its neighbours get through the downturn. mozambique has urged its private sector to build more tourist hotels while botswana and economically devastated zimbabwe hope to attract teams and fans for practice matches. nomura international estimates the world cup will add about 0.6 to 0.7 percent to south africa's economic growth in 2010. the country has poured billions of dollars into infrastructure spending for the world cup, leaving construction as virtually the only industrial sector left standing in the recession. official data shows that while manufacturing and mining contracted by record margins in the first quarter of this year, and the finance and retail sales also dipped, construction expanded by almost 10 percent. newly-elected president jacob zuma, trying to combat scepticism about his ability to maintain stability and growth, has vowed to do everything possible to ensure the tournament's success. "we have, as government and the nation at large, pledged that the world cup will leave a proud legacy from which our children and our communities will benefit for many years to come," he said in his first state of the nation speech last week. "we are on track to meet all our obligations and are determined to give the world the best world cup ever," zuma said --- army repels taliban in nw pakistan after hotel blast  peshawar, pakistan wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan launched a new operation against taliban fighters in the northwest on wednesday, a day after an attack on a luxury hotel in peshawar killed at least nine people, including two foreign un workers. taliban militants have stepped up attacks in cities since the army launched a campaign in april to clear taliban fighters from a stronghold in swat and other parts of northwest pakistan. more than 1,300 militants and 105 soldiers have been killed in swat, and the army's resolve has heartened us officials, who have been worried that nuclear-armed pakistan could slide into chaos unless the taliban's advance weren't stopped. with the swat offensive in its closing stages, the military said on wednesday it had launched an operation in bannu, 150 km southwest of peshawar, after up to 800 militants slipped into the district. "gunships, artillery and ground troops are being used in the operation," a military official said on condition of anonymity, but he had no details on militant casualties. bannu lies at the gateway to the waziristan tribal region, another taliban and al qaeda stronghold, and the islamist fighters aimed to raise havoc in other parts of the northwest, according to a military statement. the attack on peshawar's pearl continental, a hotel frequented by vips and foreigners visiting the capital of north west frontier province, will inevitably reinforce concerns over insecurity in pakistan. less than a third of the hotel's 150 rooms were occupied, but the blast blew out all the windows, and caused several walls and a section of floors to collapse on the front side. un agencies issued statements saying five workers, including a serbian man, a philippine woman and three pakistanis, were among those killed in the assault on the pearl continental. qazi jameel, a senior police official, told reuters that nine people were killed in the peshawar hotel attack, and rescuers were still looking for more victims. the toll excludes dead militants and people still missing. some officials gave higher tolls. a british and a nigerian man, and a german woman were among more than 60 wounded. pakistan's decision to opt for military action in swat has been helped by a shift in public opinion. that support might ebb if the welfare of some 2.5 million people displaced by the conflict in the northwest is mishandled. the united nations is heavily involved in relief efforts and about a dozen u.n. staff were staying at pearl continental. security breach militants had shot their way into the forecourt and exploded a truck bomb in front of the lobby, evoking nightmarish memories of the attack on the marriott hotel in islamabad last september that killed 55 people. news channels ran closed circuit television camera footage of the checkpost at the hotel gateway on the main road. it showed a cyclist speaking to a security guard, who then returned to his cabin. as the cyclist pedalled through, a retractable metal barrier in the driveway was lowered. a saloon car pulled in, briefly stopped and then sped over the lowered barrier towards the hotel, swiftly followed by a small truck. another guard ran for cover as shots were fired. police said the bomb contained 500 kg of explosives, a similar size to the bomb at the marriott. the mangled truck used in the attack could be seen close to a crater 6 metres wide and one metre deep. there was no claim of responsibility, but the taliban have warned of retaliation because of the swat offensive, and the style of attack was similar to recent others. the karachi share market's benchmark index lost 0.56 percent due to investor nerves over deteriorating security. "investors are fearful that there may be more attacks by militants in retaliation," said asad iqbal, managing director at ismail iqbal securities --- whoever wins election, us wants talks with iran  washington, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us president barack obama plans to pursue attempts to engage tehran whether hard-line president mahmoud ahmadinejad or his moderate rival mirhossein mousavi ultimately emerges as the winner of iran's election. "the president's decision to engage iran was not based on a particular electoral result. we are going to engage the iranian government whether it is led by one faction or the other," a senior state department official said. state media declared ahmadinejad the winner but challenger mirhossein mousavi alleged irregularities and claimed victory for himself after the hotly contested election. washington hoped that, whoever wins, the election will end the acerbic tone from iran and reduce tension as major powers seek to curb tehran's nuclear ambitions. experts said a second term by ahmadinejad would make it tougher for obama to change the tone but they also cautioned against excessive optimism if former prime minister mousavi wins. "this is going to be hard and complex, regardless of who is elected president. there are a lot of different factions and mixed views on the idea of engaging the great satan (as iran has sometimes called washington)," added the state department official. he was speaking on condition of anonymity before the results were known. unknown quantity ex-cia analyst bruce riedel said ahmadinejad's re-election could cripple u.s. efforts to improve relations. but he also said mousavi's rule as prime minister in the 1980s had been a "scary time". during that period the iranian-backed lebanese militant group hezbollah, which is also a political movement, was formed and the former prime minister took a hard line against israel. "we don't know whether that is mousavi any more. is he still that iranian or has he changed? i think clearly, iranians think -- at least the reformers -- that he is a different person. i am not saying he is or he isn't but he would be more of an unknown quantity," said riedel. "but if you have to choose between the two, we are much better off with change than with another four years of ahmadinejad," added riedel, who is now an analyst with the brookings institution's saban center. the united states hopes the election will end months of stalling by tehran both over how to respond to obama's personal overtures as well as an offer by major powers, including washington, to settle disputes over its nuclear program. international resolve mousavi has pledged to continue nuclear talks with major powers if he is president, while ahmadinejad has ruled out such negotiations with the united states, russia, china, france, germany and britain. another ahmadinejad term would probably make it easier for washington to push for more intense sanctions against iran if it continues to resist giving up uranium enrichment the west suspects is aimed at building an atomic bomb. tehran argues that its nuclear program is peaceful. a mousavi win will make it tougher for washington to maintain international resolve over iran's nuclear program, particularly from china and russia which have consistently balked at tough financial pressure. "russia and china do not have any resolve and will use it as an excuse," said elliott abrams, a former senior bush administration official now with the council on foreign relations. but middle east expert jon alterman said it was advisable for any new government to wait a while before acting and that the obama administration must continue pushing even for a limited dialogue with the goal of better managing tensions between the two. "whatever the results, iran is in a state of political ferment. there is a sense that if the facts have not changed, the mood has changed," said alterman. "regardless of who wins, the policy should be a quiet exploration of ways to build common interest and ways to stop offensive behavior," he said. --- road crash kills 4, including uz chairman, in rajshahi  rajshahi, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  four people including a upazila chairman were killed and at least 25 others injured as a bus and truck collided head-on on the dhaka-rajshahi highway at puthia in rajshahi early on sunday. of the dead, only puthia upazila chairman wayezul islam bachchu, 55, could be identified immediately. puthia police chief abdul hamid told bdnews24.com that a rajshahi-bound hanif paribahan bus coming from dhaka collided with a truck headed for natore in senbagh area at around 1:15am. three people died on the spot while one died at rajshahi medical college hospital, hamid said. the bodies were kept at the rmch morgue. the injured were admitted to puthia upazila health complex and the rmch, the police official said. bdnews --- al mp scuffles with police in ctg  chittagong, june 12 (bdnews24.com)awami league mp ma latif scuffled with the police at the agrabad water transport coordination cell office in the friday. when the mp from chittagong-10 constituency, accompanied by some hundreds of men, attempted entering the wtcc office, the duty police stopped them and an altercation ensued. latif sustained minor injuries . rebuffed by the police, the mp manhandled both nirmalendu bikash chakravarti, assistant police commissioner, doublemoorings zone, and local police chief akm manjurul haque, police said. the mp's men are still agitating in the vicinity of the wtcc. a police contingent has also been posted there. earlier, latif had been accused of humiliating another two senior police officers at patenga on one occasion and misbehaving with another police officer on a biman flight another time. bdne --- try those who persecuted politicians: moudud  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)opposition bnp leader moudud ahmed on wednesday said those who harassed and persecuted politicians during the 2007-2008 emergency rule should be named and put on trial. he agreed with law minister shafiq ahmed's remarks that the caretaker government had harassed and persecuted politicians. "those who were behind and involved with such oppressions must be tried," said moudud, a former law minister and now an mp. shafiq had blamed 'joint forces' for harassing politicians during the last caretaker government regime, saying they commandeered the anticorruption commission to serve the purposes of the past caretaker government. "the anticorruption commission filed cases against politicians at the instruction of joint forces," the minister told reporters after meeting the eu troika delegates on tuesday. the acc had no other alternative then than suing the politicians, shafiq added the bnp leader said both the prime minister and the opposition leader were jailed then. a number of politicians were not only arrested, but were also physically tortured. "those violations should be tried in the court," said modud, an mp, also. he himself was persecuted while in the custody of the joint forces, he admitted. the former law minister said, "some military officers having wrong notions tarnished the image of our army during the emergency by implementing their own agenda." "those officers must be identified and tried in the court of law, which may be possible if the government is keen enough to do that. we are ready to cooperate with them in this case." he also demanded that a white paper delineating the caretaker government's rule be published. b --- beijing ambitious for asia trophy despite top four snub  beijing, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - beijing hopes that hosting the asia trophy will help it become the continent's soccer centre despite the absence of a top four finisher from the english premier league for the first time in the tournament's history. tottenham hotspur, west ham united and hull city will contest the tournament with beijing guoan on july 29 and 31 as part of the beijing international football festival, which also includes the italian super cup between inter milan and lazio on aug. 8. "the 2009 asia trophy will bring splendour to the festival," beijing football association (bfa) director hu zhaoguan told a news conference on wednesday. "it will help us improve the status of beijing in world sport and make beijing the capital of asian football." it will also, however, be the first time that the biennial tournament will not feature one of the top four clubs from the preceding season after chelsea (2003), everton (2005) and liverpool (2007) played in the previous three versions. the premier league's richard masters said chelsea, who finished third last season, had expressed an interest in taking part but subsequently decided not to, adding that the league were "very happy" with the trio of clubs involved. "it's not really a commercial enterprise in the sense that it doesn't make finance for the premier league," masters, director of sales and marketing, explained. "what it does is provide something back. what we export at the moment is a television signal. i think it's very important for us to be visible here. "we don't always have the big clubs coming so it provides an opportunity for the smaller clubs to experience asia and build their fan bases here." packed stadiums perhaps mindful that even the pull of clubs like manchester united and real madrid has failed to fill stadiums in china in recent years, organisers said tickets would be priced with the aim of getting as many fans into the stadium as possible. "we want to be playing to packed stadiums," said dan johnson, the league's head of press. "we want not only to market the english premier league but also help improve the status of professional football in china." while the italian super cup will take place at the bird's nest on the first anniversary of the opening of the beijing olympics, the asia trophy will be at guoan's home worker's stadium with a capacity of 49,000 for the event. the premier league will also run raft of coaching initiatives, refereeing schemes and community programmes around the tournament, providing what they hope will be a lasting legacy. "this is the start of the process, not the end," johnson added --- girls school cricket begins on friday  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  the girls school cricket tournament gets underway on friday with eight teams taking part in the meet. the participating teams will play in round-robin 20-over-a-side matches with the top two teams qualifying for the final. on the opening day, azimpur girls school and college will play against bangladesh kria shikkha protisthan at the women's complex ground while rahomotullah model school will face par gerdaria non-govt primary and junior high school at the same ground. apart from above four teams, two teams each from viqarunnisa noon school & college and amzad ali sarker pilot girls high school will take part in the tournament. bd --- hiddink hands arshavin russia captaincy  moscow, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - andrei arshavin will captain russia for the rest of their world cup qualifying campaign after an impressive performance in the 3-0 victory over finland. regular skipper sergei semak was on the bench with a minor injury but russia coach guus hiddink told reporters after the win, which put the team a point behind group four leaders germany, arshavin would remain captain even with semak in the starting line-up. arsenal forward arshavin was russia's captain during their euro 2008 qualifiers but was stripped of his duties after being sent off in their final game in andorra --- speaker wants bnp in house  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  speaker abdul hamid has again asked the opposition to return to parliament to discuss issues of national importance. "after everything, i request all opposition members to join parliament immediately and discuss, before the nation, serious issues like budget," the speaker said saturday at a workshop of the public accounts committee. the opposition has refused to join the parliament since the start of the budget session, as it refused for most of the maiden session, over an ongoing seating dispute. hamid reiterated that it was not possible to provide the opposition more seats in the front row. "five seats have been provided after much consideration," he said. both the ruling and opposition chief whips were consulted over the issue, he said. parliament secretariat and world bank jointly organised the workshop at the dhaka sheraton. bnp mps mk anwar, public accounts committee chairman kh rahiduzzaman, acting world bank country representative tahseen sayeed and parliament secretary ashfaq hamid were at the workshop. mk anwar said if the public accounts committee worked actively it would help increase accountability of the government. bdne --- brazil beat paraguay 2-1 to retain lead in south america  recife, brazil, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - striker nilmar capitalised on a piece of good fortune to earn brazil a 2-1 home win over paraguay on wednesday that keeps them top of the south american world cup qualifying table. nilmar, who had a quiet first half, chested a felipe melo pass towards kaka only for the ball to come back to him off the unfortunate julio cesar caceres and the striker managed to scramble it home. paraguay, also among the top four in the group, went ahead midway through the first half when salvador cabanas's free kick from outside the box took a deflection off elano and looped over brazil goalkeeper julio cesar. robinho then volleyed an exquisite equaliser four minutes before halftime from daniel alves's cross from the right --- alaska's rat island rat-free after 229 years  anchorage, alaska, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - alaska's rat island is finally rat-free, 229 years after a japanese shipwreck spilled rampaging rodents onto the remote aleutian island, decimating the local bird population. after dropping poison onto the island from helicopter-hoisted buckets for a week and a half last autumn, there are no signs of living rats and some birds have returned, according to the us fish and wildlife service. rats have ruled the island since 1780, when they jumped off a sinking japanese ship and terrorized all but the largest birds on the island. the incident introduced the non-native norway rat -- also known as the brown rat -- to alaska. the $2.5 million rat island eradication project, a joint effort between the us federal government, the nature conservancy and island conservation, is one of the world's most ambitious attempts to remove destructive alien species from an island. now there are signs that several species of birds, including aleutian cackling geese, ptarmigan, peregrine falcons and black oystercatchers, are starting to nest again on the 10-square-mile (26-sq-km) island. it is too soon to say that rat island is definitively rat-free, however. that can only be established after at least two years of monitoring, said bruce woods, a spokesman for the fish and wildlife service in anchorage. "we don't know that there's not a couple of happy rats hiding away that are going to spring out and repopulate the island," he said --- edn, tech, health allocations 19% of budget  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)finance minister ama muhith proposed the fy 2009-10 budget on thursday combining education and technology and health sectors together. a total of tk 21, 367 crore allocation has been proposed, which is 19 percent of the total budget. in the fy 2008-9 budget, education and technology allocation was tk 12, 258 crore, which was over 12 percent of the total budget --- scolari new coach of uzbek side bunyodkor  tashkent, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former brazil, portugal and chelsea manager luiz felipe scolari has been named coach of bunyodkor, the uzbek champions said on tuesday. the 60-year-old former world cup-winning coach, who was sacked by the west london premier league club in february, has agreed an 18-month contract with the uzbek side. "uzbek football is on an upswing right now while bunyodkor is a very dynamic club with great potential," scolari was quoted as saying on the club's website (www.fcbunyodkor.com). "i know that i am at the right place at the right time." scolari, who led brazil to their fifth world title in 2002, succeeds fellow brazilian zico, who led bunyodkor to the league and cup double and asian champions league semi-finals last year before quitting in december to join cska moscow. scolari is bringing a team of assistant coaches to the uzbek capital and will be reunited with midfielder rivaldo, who was part of brazil's 2002 world cup-winning team. fiery coach the fiery coach, usually known as felipao (big phil) in his homeland, said he had been attracted by the chance of helping improve the standards of football in the central asian country. "i made a choice because of a number of details, which are difficult to explain in an interview, but it's basically because of the project which i was offered," said scolari in an interview with his media advisor released to the press. "the ideas of the club president, the way i was received by the public on the two occasions i was in uzbekistan, the project for the stadium, which will be finished in march, seven training camps." "(i like) the way the club is taking on a new football reality in uzbekistan. it offers me a project which is similar to ones in which i have already worked and which were very fulfilling for me." scolari hopes to attract some more well-known players to the club and said he saw a bright future for uzbeki football. bunyodkor, which means builder in uzbek, were founded less than four years ago as an amateur team and were promoted each year until they reached the top flight in 2007. after a runners-up finish that year, they won the league and cup double the following season. the club said they are building a new 35,000-seat arena at a cost of $150 million, due to be completed by march next year. "in football terms, it's starting to show potential, there are good qualities and some interesting players. "we need to start the project so that in four, five, ten years from now, uzbekistan are competing on level terms, with the top national teams, to qualify for all the championships in which they take part." financial aspect scolari played down money as a factor in his move. "the financial situation is part of all this but, in my opinion, this should be considered one of the least important factors. "but the financial aspect often attracts a player or coach to a distant country such as uzbekistan." scolari, who coached in saudi arabia and kuwait earlier in his career, said he had not ruled out a return to europe but was also thinking of a final stint in brazil. "no, it's not over," he said. "i'm a professional and i work wherever they give me the chance to improve and where i can offer them some of my knowledge such as bunyodkor. "i don't know what will happen after my one-and-a-half year contract. "there could be a project in europe, but there's also a big possibility, after so many years away from brazil "maybe i will have a chance in 2010 or 2011 to work with a brazilian team and then think about staying in brazil permanently." "i lived for six years in (saudi) arabia and kuwait, then six years in portugal and england, another year in japan. so i have worked for 13 years outside brazil and i imagine working for four or five (more) years. --- four plead guilty in us to aiding tamil tigers  new york, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the head of the us branch of sri lanka's tamil tiger rebel group and three other men have pleaded guilty to terrorism charges, prosecutors said, weeks after sri lanka declared victory in a 25-year civil war. karunakaran kandasamy, pratheepan thavaraja, murugesu vinayagamoorthy and vijayshanthar patpanathan admitted on tuesday at brooklyn federal court conspiring to funnel money and arms to rebels in sri lanka. the separatist guerrillas were defeated by sri lankan government forces last month and their reclusive leader velupillai prabhakaran was killed. prosecutors have said the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (ltte) relied on expatriates to raise money, get weapons and spread propaganda. to coordinate these activities, the tigers established "branches" in at least 12 countries, including an office in the new york borough of queens, they said. they said kandasamy oversaw the organization's activities and fund-raising and acted under the direction of senior tamil leaders in sri lanka. "just weeks after the ltte's leaders in sri lanka were defeated in that country, the leader of the ltte in the united states and other ltte supporters have been brought to justice," said us attorney benton campbell. the men, who had previously pleaded innocent to the charges, had been due to go to trial in july. kandasamy and pratheepan both face a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. vinayagamoorthy and patpanathan face a maximum sentence of 15 years. in january, four men pleaded guilty to conspiring to buy equipment, including guided anti-aircraft missiles, for the tamil tigers, also in brooklyn federal court --- budget aims to fulfill al pledges  abdur rahim harmachhi bdnews24.com senior correspondent dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)having finessed details in the past few days, finance minister abul maal abdul muhith is all set to propose the first budget of the grand alliance government for fiscal year 2009-10 on thursday, with introduction of a much-touted ppp sector in a bid to fulfill campaign pledges. the finance minister would not enlarge much on the ensuing budget on tuesday night except that the proposed budget aimed to fulfill the government's campaign commitments and combat the impacts of the global financial crunch. "public-private partnership is the novel aspect of the coming budget. it will be an addition to the traditional revenue and development budgets." asked what might be the total size of the budget, muhith said it had to be above tk 1,00,000 crore. it should be around tk 1, 15,000 crore as indicated by the media. in more than one pre-budget discussions, the finance minister indicated that the next budget will be an ambitious one. the budget will have to be expanded to an extent to deliver on the election pledges, enhance civil servant' pay and perks as per the seventh pay commission recommendations and adopt measures to cope with the financial downturn. the total revenue expenditure in the budget exceeds tk 82,000 crore, of which tk 30, 500 crore in annual development programme (adp) allocations have been finalised by the national economic council. the fy 2009-10 budget will have a block allocation of tk 2, 200 crore to finance the much-discussed public-private partnership (ppp) entrepreneurial efforts. the total revenue earnings have been targeted at tk 85, 000 crore. the size of the fy 2008-09 budget was tk 99, 962 crore, which had a revenue earning target set at tk 69, 382 crore (including nbr and external sectors). the minister assured all time and again in the recent past that people would not be burdened with new taxes, but the scope and limits of levying existing taxes will be further expanded. the taxation system will be made more effective to make sure none can dodge tax collectors, he added. the new budget will announce increasing the number of taxpayers from seven lakh to 10 lakh, a national board of revenue official said in condition of anonymity. the total number of taxpayers with tin are over 22 lakh, of whom only seven lakh pay taxes and the number has been decided to be raised to 10 lakh. the finance minister said the number of recipients of allowances payable to aged people, freedom fighters and widows, and other social security stipends will be increased alongside enhancing the dole sizes, which should be in line with the election commitments. ppp to come muhith said a separate controller's office needed to be set up to run the ppp initiatives. "they will be fully run by the private sector and from the private sector again a chief will be recruited." "the total project will be funded by private sector entrepreneurs." for example, muhith said, "we can invite the private sector to be a party to build residential halls for public universities." "birdem will have new hospitals in the north-western region through ppp." tk 2,200 crore for ppp a block allocation of tk 2, 200 crore in the new budget for the new ppp sector will be utilised to fund six projects. four will be implemented in dhaka, one in chittagong and one in the coastal belt, costing an estimated tk 76, 245 crore in total. the projects are dhaka-chittagong express highway, sky railway skirting dhaka city, underground railway in the capital and the dhaka city elevated expressway under the communications ministry, he said. the power and energy ministry project proposes the construction of two 900 megawatt coal-fired power plants and the shipping ministry eyes a deep sea-port in chittagong. according to the finance ministry data, the cost of dhaka-chittagong express highway has been estimated at tk 22, 101 crore, dhaka city underground railway tk 21, 390 crore, the sky railway skirting dhaka city tk 19, 320 crore, dhaka city elevated expressway tk 8, 487 crore and the two 900 megawatt coal-fired power plants in the coastal belt will together cost tk 621 crore. the projects being colossal in dimensions, their implementation will take five to seven years, the ministry official said. besides, construction of smaller link and approach bridges, flyovers, underpasses and tunnels, university residential halls and hospitals will be undertaken under the ppp. in the changed circumstances during military-installed fakhruddin ahmed-led caretaker government's regime, then the finance and planning adviser, ab mirza azizul islam, had presented two budgets for the fiscal years 2007-8 and 2008-9. earlier in 1995, professor wahiduddin mahmud as the finance adviser to the then caretaker government had presented the nation with an interim budget for three months. budget on bdnews24.com a press information department handout on tuesday said the finance minister's budget presentation and all related information will be available on the website of bdnews24.com. the handout added that the budget presentation, budget summary, annual financial statement, supplementary financial statement, grant and allocation demands, mid-term budget structure, public-private partnership, entrepreneurial investments, programmes of four ministries to achieve women development and rights will be provided by the jatiya sangsad for wider dissemination through the media and especially bdnews24.com. bd --- muhith seeks to shield locals  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)fearing a slump in revenue due to falling imports, the finance minister has proposed both enhanced rates of customs duties and an expanded income tax and vat base. import duties alone contribute 42 percent to bangladesh's total revenue, and a battling a m a muhith said in his budget speech on thursday that he would protect local industries, promote exports but at the same time slap higher rates on items that only the rich afford. he hoped to raise tk 23,236 crore in import duties. the minister also aimed to increase receipts from value added tax, now nearly a third of the total national revenue. the proposed budget targets tk 20,735 crore from vat. the minister has had all the reasons to be extra careful. in 2008-9, the revenuethe revised target is tk 53,000 crorefell short of the original goal, tk 54,500 crore. if the proposed measures get the parliamentary go-ahead, top-end mobile phones will be costlier, so will carsnew, reconditioned, old, used and air conditioners, refrigerators, luxury lamps, imported ceramic items. a 25 percent duty depending on value will replace existing flat tk 300 for any phonecheap or expensive. an increased duty on expensive cars is designed to "discourage" import of such vehicles. "to augment revenue collection and to discourage imports of luxury vehicles, i propose to increase supplementary duty on the imports of luxury vehicles and restructuring of duty slabs," the minister told mps. "i propose to fix the consolidated rate of depreciation at 30% for old, used and reconditioned vehicles not exceeding five years. "dealers' commission for deduction from the value of such vehicles shall be 10% instead of existing 20%." but cars to be imported for use as taxi cabs will be spared. "to enable importation of durable and standard vehicles to be used as taxicab, i propose to attach the conditions of minimum engine capacity of 1500 cc and import of at least 10 vehicles in one consignment by any taxicab company. "i also propose to waive all customs duty in excess of 20% and all supplementary duty and regulatory duty for taxi cabs fulfilling the above conditions." cars that consume less fuel will cost less. "in order to offer exemption from supplementary duty against import of hybrid motorcars, which is fuel efficient, i propose to create a new hs code for separate classification." luxury items will cost more. "government is pledge bound to discourage imports of luxury items and products detrimental to public health. in view of that, i propose to impose 5% regulatory duty against tariff lines with 25% customs duty." cheaper basic raw material the finance minister, however, sought to make basic industrial raw materials cheaper, with proposals to reduce duty rate from seven percent to five percent. "i propose to reduce ... in order to make our local industries more competitive both in local and international market," he said. "however, other slabs of 3 percent, 12 percent and 25 percent would remain unchanged." in 2008-09, import duty structure comprised 3 percent on capital machinery and parts, seven percent on basic industrial raw materials, 12 percent on intermediate raw materials and 25 percent on finished products. zero tariff will stay for imports of major foodgrains, seeds, fertiliser, medicine and raw cotton. "i propose to withdraw vat on the imports of raw materials to produce pesticides to keep pesticides easily available for farmers." the minister proposed withdrawal of duties on solar panels, locally-produced generators, energy saving lamps, and ocean-going vessels. vat to go up "vat is the highest contributor to the domestic tax revenue. therefore, to meet the growing demand for domestic revenue, i propose to enhance the rate of vat to 2.25% from the existing 1.5%. smokers will pay more, but not because the government needed more revenue. "considering the demand from various anti-smoking campaigners including ministry of health and family welfare, i propose to increase the price slab for cigarettes and tariff value for domestic production of bidi alongside imposition of 10% supplementary duty on zarda and gu l. "besides, i propose to increase the rate of supplementary duty applicable on the domestic production of beverages, polished and unpolished stones, tiles, mosaic, ceramic bathtub & jacuzzi, sink, basin, commode, bathroom fittings and impose 10% supplementary duty on local production of glass sheet. protection for local producers muhith sought to protect local newsprint producers, proposing to slap a five percent duty on imports for the newspaper industry. "moreover, i propose to withdraw the vat applicable for importation of pulp that is a virtual raw material for this industry." similar support was suggested for many other local products. "to offer protection to the local dairy industry, i propose to impose 5% regulatory duty in addition to 12% customs duty on milk powder imported in bulk. "our local industries are seriously hurt due to significant decline in prices in the international market. "so, to offer protection to the local industries producing footwear, ceramic tiles, tableware, sanitary ware and other ceramic items, i propose to raise supplementary duty from existing 20% to 45% and impose 20% supplementary duty on the imports of particle board, hard board, medium density fibre (mdf) board, plywood, leather goods, such as bag, suitcase, vanity bag etc., mosquito coil, imitation jewellery and corrugated cartons. "moreover, i propose to impose 45% supplementary duty on imported tooth brush . "similarly, to protect local biscuit factories i propose to impose 100% supplementary duty in place of existing 60%. "besides, to prevent valuation fraud in importation of biscuits and dry cell batteries, i propose to fix tariff value on these items. "likewise, to protect local liquid glucose , dextrose producing plants, i propose to impose 20% supplementary duty on their imports. "in bangladesh, air-conditioners are still used by the affluent section of the society for their homes and offices. "the use of this product entails huge electricity consumption. besides, our power generation is still lagging behind its demand. under the circumstances, i propose to increase the supplementary duty on importation of air-conditioner to 60% from 20% and impose 45% supplementary duty on its parts. "i also propose to enhance the supplementary duty on refrigerators from 20% to 30% and increase supplementary duty on luxury light fittings and fixtures from 20% to 60%. doctors, cancer patients to benefit the minister proposed withdrawal of vat on doctors' fees as well as "domestic production of drugs for preventing cancer". rural small industries, agriculture and diary will also enjoy no-vat facility. "to protect the interest of the domestic dairy industries, i propose to withdraw 2.5% supplementary duty applicable on the processing of liquid milk to convert into powdered milk. "moreover, to make the vat more bearable, i propose to fix tariff value for powder milk at tk. 100/kg. this would result in only tk. 15/kg as vat instead of current tk. 50/kg. he also referred to the proposed duty increase for bulk milk powder imports "to protect this industry" and said: "i hope this should expedite the development of dairy industry. "to offer incentives for complete manufacturing units, which create more value addition and generate more employment opportunities, i propose to offer vat exemption for the next one year for complete manufacturers of refrigerators and motorcycles . "besides, i propose to withdraw vat on local production of hard board . keeping money in banks for small savers is set to be cheaper. "as an incentive to small savers, i propose to raise the threshold level for imposing excise duty on bank deposits to tk. 20,000 instead of existing tk. 10,000. no vat on internet in schools the minister proposed withdrawal of vat on the internet services used in the educational institutions "to keep this service within the reach of students and also to signify our commitment towards digital bangladesh". "to promote development of good films, i propose to withdraw vat and supplementary duty on the screening of bangladesh made films awarded national or international prizes and films produced with the assistance of government grants." but the vat net will catch many more areas of economic activity. "it is essential to broaden the tax base for vat to ensure progression of this tax over time. besides, to ensure a more equitable tax system, existing exemptions should be phased out gradually. "for this and in the interest of the revenue augmentation, i propose to bring the services of event management , human resources supply or management, inspection and certification service provision, floor space rental for commercial purposes, plants & equipment lease for any particular period under the purview of vat. "i also propose to withdraw the vat exemption facility enjoyed by travel agents , indenting firms , manpower exporters, manufacturers of utensils, sanitary ware and other kitchenware made of aluminium and enamel, homeopathic , ayurvedic, unani and herbal medicine and plastic furniture. chanachur not spared! "to ensure equity among various classes of taxpayers, i propose to bring the manufacturers of lozenges, energy drinks and juice, chanachur , cosmetics, items of hair treatment ... biscuits under the purview of vat irrespective of turnover level. the minister proposed to deploy more tax collectors throughout and upgrade some collection points. bdnews2 --- maoist rebels kill 13 police in jharkhand  ranchi, india, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - maoist rebels killed 13 policemen in two separate attacks in jharkhand on friday, officials said, the second attack on security forces this week in the region. ten policemen were killed when the rebels triggered a landmine blast near a police station in jharkhand's bokaro district early on friday, a top police officer said. three others were shot dead by the rebels near a remote village in the same district. the maoists say they are fighting for the rights of poor farmers and the landless. thousands have been killed in the maoist insurgency in india which began in the late 1960s, described by prime minister manmohan singh as one of the gravest threats to india's internal security. mineral-rich jharkhand has been the hotbed of rebel violence, with a string of attacks carried out against the police in recent months. on wednesday, maoist rebels killed 11 policemen in west singbhum district of jharkhand. the rebels also shut down shops and schools in rural strongholds in east and central india on friday to protest the recent killing of a senior leader by the po --- russia drops unilateral wto bid for ex-soviet pact  moscow, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia threw its 16-year bid to join the world trade organization into jeopardy on tuesday when prime minister vladimir putin said moscow would only join the trade body in partnership with two former soviet republics. putin, announcing plans to form a customs union with belarus and kazakhstan, blamed tortuous wto accession talks for blocking integration with its ex-soviet neighbors, only days after the european union said the kremlin's wait could be over this year. the surprise move by russia, the largest country outside the 153-member wto, implies talks will start afresh on the basis of a new agreement between the three former soviet states, which intend to form the customs union from january 1, 2010. russia has previously accused the united states and the european union of hindering its wto bid for political reasons. putin, speaking at a joint news conference with the kazakh and belarussian prime ministers, karim masimov and sergei sidorsky, said the three countries would notify the wto that their separate negotiations will be stopped. "it's a sign of frustration on the russian side, but it's also recognition that wto membership is no longer such a priority," said roland nash, chief strategist at investment bank renaissance capital. the international monetary fund (imf) warned this month that russia's bid to join the wto was losing momentum. five days ago, eu trade commissioner catherine ashton said she had agreed with russian economy minister elvira nabiullina that moscow's wto accession should be completed by year-end, saying the two sides had a "common understanding. but the creation of a customs union with countries whose wto negotiations are less advanced may force the eu to think again. "this could create a new situation, which we would first need to carefully analyze to determine the potential impact on russia's wto negotiations," said lutz guellner, spokesman for ashton. the decision is also a slap in face for u.s. president barack obama ahead of his visit in russia next month. obama and russia's president dmitry medvedev agreed in april to instruct their governments to work on finalizing russia's accession. brazil, russia, india and china, known as bric, will also hold their first summit in yekaterinburg next week and officials have said the four were willing to look into trade initiatives outside the wto framework. kazakhstan started wto talks in 1996 but has continuously put off the accession deadline. russia, still running the world's third-largest gold and forex reserves, has used the economic crisis to increase influence in the post-soviet space. "our priority remains wto entry, we confirm this, but already as a united customs union and not as separate countries," putin said. he said trade talks with the european union would also be held within the framework of the new deal. puzzling move russian negotiators had been expected in geneva next week for a new round of bilateral accession talks. masimov said the three countries would now create a new group of negotiators. trade experts said the timing of the move was puzzling. no group of countries has ever joined the wto as a single customs union, and the proposal is likely to delay the accession of the former soviet states even more. although russian finance minister alexei kudrin flagged the move at the international monetary fund conference in april, his statement was not taken seriously at the time. on monday, kudrin said new accession talks will start in 2010. internal disputes within the proposed customs union could also complicate matters. russia on tuesday expanded its ban on dairy products from belarus, which earns billions of dollars from its milk exports and had a 4 percent share of the russian market last year. "the russian desire to form a customs union with the cis -- and obviously to become the dominant partner -- is a more important objective in the short term," said nash --- gates says afghan gains key to us public support  washington, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the obama administration's strategy for afghanistan needs to show progress over the next year or so to ensure continued us public support for the war effort, defense secretary robert gates said on tuesday. "it's very important for us to be able to show the american people that we are moving forward by the end of the year or a year from now," gates said in testimony before a senate panel on defense appropriations. "the american people will be willing to sustain this endeavor if they believe it's not just a stalemate." gates spoke as thousands of new us forces poured into afghanistan as part of a troop build-up ordered by president barack obama to quell the worst violence the country has seen since the 2001 us-led invasion. analysts say american public support for the war could become an issue in coming months, with us casualties in afghanistan expected to rise as a result of a counterinsurgency drive to eliminate insurgent strongholds, especially in the south. public support for the war also could have political implications as members of the us senate and house of representatives seek votes in next year's mid-term elections. a recent survey by the pew research center for the people & the press showed about 53 percent of americans in favor of obama's troop increase. but the data also suggested support was strongest among republicans, with about 43 percent of democrats opposed to greater american involvement. "the strategy needs to show some signs that it's working, not that it has been totally successful, a year to 18 months from now," said gates, who appeared at a senate hearing with navy admiral mike mullen, chairman of the us joint chiefs of staff. mullen concurred with gates, saying: "the next 12-to-18 months will really tell the tale." the united states now has 56,000 troops in afghanistan, up sharply from 32,000 at the end of 2008. pentagon officials expect that number to rise to 68,000 by the start of 2010. gates blamed a rise in afghan violence that began in 2006 on peace deals between pakistan and militants across the afghan border in pakistan's federally administered tribal areas. those deals, he said, took military pressure off the taliban and other groups and allowed more fighters to cross the border into afghanistan. but the us defense chief expressed optimism about the pakistan military's recent efforts to drive militants from the swat valley in the north west frontier province. "the newest development of the pakistani army taking on these extremists in swat and elsewhere, i think, is an extremely important development. and the possibility of the afghans, the pakistanis, ourselves and our allies together working against this problem has given me more optimism about the future than i've had in a long time," he  --- rifts in bnp because of competition: mosharraf  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)bnp is experiencing ripples of conflict as competition heats up among its young leaders vying for positions in the organisational ladder, senior party policymaker khandaker mosharraf hossain has said. "once the effective leadership pattern emerges through the councils, there will an end to such conflicts," mosharraf, a national standing committee member, told reporters at his segunbagicha office on sunday. "the convening committees are an interim arrangement. around the convening committees at a few places, some leadership crises have been reported, which will be soon resolved." questioned whether there would be change in the post of secretary general, mosharraf said, "the chairperson only can appoint or change a secretary general. i, however, will welcome any proposal of selecting a secretary general through the central council." the former minister alleged that the ruling awami league-led alliance was keeping the opposition from joining the ongoing parliamentary session unfortunately. main opposition bnp is staying away over a seating arrangement dispute. to the government, a seat in the front row in parliament is more precious than the main opposition's presence, he said. "since you have all the seats in parliament, can't you forego only one front row seat and have bnp in the house?" he asked the government: bnp will make a documentary film highlighting projections of probable damages the much discussed dam india proposes to erect at tipaimukh might wreak on bangladesh rivers downstream and the environment in general, mosharraf said. the film will be screened at home and abroad to sensitise people everywhere of the threats the proposed dam poses. he told reporters that the standing committee at a meeting on saturday discussed the tipaimukh menace and the construction of the asian highway. b --- sri lanka defend modest total to beat pakistan  by john mehaffey london, june 12 (reuters) - sri lanka showed off the depth and versatility of their bowling on friday when they beat pakistan by 19 runs in their opening twenty20 world cup second round match at lord's. defending a modest total of 150, sri lanka reduced pakistan to 36 for three after six overs. pakistan captain younus khan and misbah-ul-haq gave their side a flicker of hope with a composed partnership of 66 from 10 overs before the latter was caught for 21 at mid-wicket off muttiah muralitharan. shahid afridi fell in identical fashion off the next ball and younus's dismissal for 50 in the following over effectively ended pakistan's hopes. they finished their 20 overs on 131 for nine. sri lanka opened their bowling with angelo mathews and nuwan kulasekera before unveiling their big three of malinga, muralitharan and ajantha mendis. mathews bowled salman butt for a duck with his third ball, finishing with a respectable one for 23 off his four overs. malinga was the pick of the bowlers, taking three for 17. pakistan had made an awful start after losing the toss when sohail tanvir conceded 18 runs from an 11-ball over which contained three wides and two no-balls. sanath jayasuriya (26) and tillakaratne dilshan (46) prospered from some further erratic bowling by stroking 65 from the first six overs with jayasuriya hitting the first six of the match, swivelling on one leg to pull the ball over the boundary. but after reaching 86 for one off the first 10 overs, sri lanka added only 64 in the second half of the innings as the pakistan spinners afridi, shoaib malik and saeed ajmal put a brake on the scoring. afridi, who took four for 11 against the netherlands in the first round, was again the pick of the bowlers with two for 23 with his quick leg-spin --- 4 convicted politicians freed on bail  bangladesh, june 14 (bdnews24.com)four politicians, convicted of graft, were freed on bail sunday, said a top prisons official. jailer bazlur rahman said awami league leaders mofazzal hossain chowdhury maya and mohiuddin ahmed were released from dhaka central jail and haji selim was released from guard at birdem hospital. former bnp state minister shahjahan omar was also released from dhaka central jail. two sons of politicians were also freed on bail. safiur rahman, son of former bnp finance minister saifur rahman, was released from dhaka central jail. masudur rahman, son of former al mp moqbul hossain, was released from guard at bsmmu hospital. the high court on june 3 and 4 granted bail to the six convicted 'vips' in separate cases involving illegal wealth. maya, selim, omar, masudur and safiur have all separately been sentenced to 13 years behind bars for amassing illegal wealth in cases filed by the anticorruption commission. mohiuddin is convicted in two separate cases, for illegal wealth and evading tax, and faces 23 years in jail. former forest officer hanif patowary was also released on bail in a graft case at bsmmu hospital on sunday. bdn --- moldovan pm wins parliament vote, stays in office  chisinau, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - prime minister zinaida greceanii easily won a confidence vote in ex-soviet moldova's parliament on wednesday after twice being rejected as a candidate for president and will stay on as head of government. greceanii, first named premier in march 2008, won 59 votes in the chamber, more than the 52 required to remain in office. "i congratulate the government and wish it every success in its work in these difficult times," outgoing president vladimir voronin told deputies. voronin had nominated greceanii, a fellow communist, to succeed him as part of a plan to keep the reins of power, but an opposition boycott of the parliamentary ballot twice left her one vote short of victory. the communists won 60 seats and three opposition parties 41 in an april parliamentary election which sparked violent protests by young urban residents enraged at the prospect of the party continuing to run the country of 4.3 million. voronin cannot run again after two consecutive terms in the country wedged between ex-soviet ukraine and european union member romania. he had hoped to keep controlling moldova's affairs from his new job of speaker of parliament. but two failed attempts at electing a president means he must now dissolve parliament and call a new election to the chamber -- expected to take place in early august. the outgoing president has moved closer to moscow after a period of estrangement with the kremlin. he accuses neighbouring romania, which shares a cultural and linguistic heritage with moldova, of fomenting the post-election violence. addressing deputies before wednesday's vote, greceanii acknowledged that her government's mandate was limited in view of the impending election. but she vowed to uphold moldova's independence in the aftermath of the violence and to ease the effect of the world financial crisis. "in conditions of an extreme economic crisis, the government will have to deal with the increasing burden of political instability in the country," she said. "all actions of the executive will be aimed at pursuing the creation of moldova as an independent, sovereign state and overcoming the crisis with limited social co --- car bomb rips through south iraq market, 32 killed  baghdad, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a car bomb ripped through a crowded market in southern iraq on wednesday, killing at least 32 people, wounding 70, officials said. police locked down al bathaa, a shia muslim town 30 km (20 miles) west of nassariya that has seen little violence, while hospital officials appealed for assistance from neighboring cities to help them cope with the wounded. colonel aziz al-atabi, media director for the iraqi army's 10th division, said 32 people had been killed and 70 wounded. photographs posted online by local journalists showed pictures of the charred wreckage of the car the bomb was planted in, burned body parts and bloodstained rags mixed among vegetables strewn on the floor. the sectarian bloodshed and insurgency unleashed by the 2003 us-led invasion has fallen sharply across iraq since its peak in 2006/07, and the shia muslim south has tended to be one of the quietest areas. but insurgents, including sunni islamist al qaeda, who view shia as heretics, continue to carry out devastating car and suicide bomb attacks. analysts say violence is likely to rise ahead of parliamentary elections next january, which will pit not just shi'ite parties against once dominant sunnis and minority kurds, but also against rival shi'ite groups. the withdrawal from iraqi city centers by us combat troops at the end of the month is another potential trigger point for an increase in attacks, iraqi officials --- americans willing to have robotic surgery: poll  new york, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - trust and reliance on the internet have increased so much that nearly half of americans said they would have robotic surgery conducted via the internet, according to a new poll. americans are so accustomed to shopping, paying bills and banking on the internet that they didn't baulk when asked in a survey if they would have robotic web-based surgery or use electronic tracking units to keep tabs on young children. "many americans are now ready to trust their lives and the safety of their children to the internet," zogby international, which conducted the poll, said in a statement. nearly half of the 3,030 americans questioned in a survey said they would have internet-based, life-saving, robotic surgery performed over the web by an overseas surgeon. "it makes sense because there has been a progression in almost everything else," john zogby, the ceo of the company, said in an interview. "the most amazing thing to me, really, is the growing facility and acceptance of the internet as part of our daily routines," he added. the majority of people questioned also approved of using tracking devices for children under 12 years old if it transmits signals on a password-protected website they could track. women were only slightly more likely than men to approve a tracking device, with 55 percent backing it, while 51 percent of men favored use of such a device. "this is a spontaneous result, so that just the concept wasn't shocking," said zogby. older americans were more likely to approve of the tracking device, while younger people, particularly 25 to 34-years olds, were more open to internet surgery. people 70 years and older were the most reluctant to trust a robot with their life. although americans are becoming more dependent on the internet for a variety of services, they are also concerned about its uses. thirty percent believe the internet should be regulated. the zogby survey, done in late may and early june, showed that 84 percent of americans have internet access, including 90 percent of likely voters. "we're getting close to universality, as far as internet penetration," zogby a --- reformists hope iran vote will unseat ahmadinejad  tehran, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's presidential candidates ended a hard-fought and bitter campaign on thursday, the eve of an election which reformists hope will prevent hardline mahmoud ahmadinejad winning a second term. the campaign has seen unprecedented political mudslinging and large rallies in tehran by supporters of moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi, who a senior revolutionary guard officer accused of attempting a "velvet revolution." friday's highly charged election could set the tone for iran's relations with the west, concerned over its nuclear ambitions, and analysts say a victory for mousavi could increase the prospect for western investment in the islamic republic. but for iranians it is a chance to judge ahmadinejad's economic record and his austere islamist social agenda. "i think it's a neck-and-neck race (between ahmadinejad and mousavi)," said one tehran analyst who asked not to be named. "it's difficult to think either of the two candidates will get above 50 percent tomorrow." if none of the four candidates wins an outright majority on friday the two leading candidates will go into a june 19 run-off, which the analyst said mousavi had a good chance of winning. but others predict a victory for the incumbent, based on his popularity among the rural poor. "ahmadinejad has a lot of support throughout the country," said hamid najafi, editor-in-chief of the conservative kayhan international. mousavi supporters, wearing his bright green campaign colors, have poured onto the capital's streets for festive, nightly rallies unseen since the election 12 years ago of reformist cleric mohammad khatami. ahmadinejad supporters have held huge demonstrations of their own, expressing support for a leader who has handed petrodollars to the poor and defied western pressure to suspend iran's nuclear program. the vibrant and largely good-natured rallies have contrasted with bitter political exchanges. ahmadinejad's opponents accused him of lying about iran's economy, hit by rising prices and unemployment, while ahmadinejad has enraged the powerful former president akbar hashemi rafsanjani -- a mousavi supporter -- by accusing him of corruption. rafsanjani wrote a public letter to supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei, urging him to rein in ahmadinejad, and met khamenei on tuesday to express fears the election will be rigged, a leading moderate politician told reuters. "rafsanjani urged the leader to use his authority to make sure the election was a clean and healthy one," he said. street dancing mousavi, 67, an architect who has been out of the political spotlight for two decades, is backed by reformists and conservatives disenchanted with ahmadinejad. his outspoken wife has broken with convention to campaign openly and vocally alongside her husband, helping draw support from women and iranians too young to remember his premiership in the early years of the 1979 islamic revolution. his campaign has released a surge of youthful energy in tehran. on wednesday night women daringly threw off their headscarves, obligatory in islamic iran, and danced openly with men in the street -- in a direct challenge to 30 years of strict clerical rule. but analysts say a mousavi victory would be unlikely to trigger seismic change in a country where major policy issues are decided by the supreme leader, khamenei. mousavi advocates detente with the west, a policy which could offer hope for progress in relations with the new u.s. administration of president barack obama, who has offered to engage with iran if tehran "unclenches its fist." mousavi rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but says the dispute should be resolved through talks with the west, which fears iran's nuclear work could be used to make bombs. iran, the world's fifth-biggest oil exporter, says its nuclear program is peaceful. the united nations has imposed three sets of sanctions on iran because of its refusal to stop enriching uranium, including freezing assets of iranian companies accused of involvement in the nuclear program. "a mousavi victory would likely... lead some investors to begin exploring the iranian market as a possible medium-term option," said cliff kupchan of eurasia risk consult --- no vat on internet in educational instts  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)  the finance minister has sought to lift vat on internet services in all educational institutions. "i propose to keep this service within the reach of students and also to signify our commitment towards digital bangladesh," ama muhith said in his budget speech thursday --- blake meets khaleda  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)us assistant secretary of state for south and central asian affairs robert o blake called on opposition leader khaleda zia on saturday. the two had a fruitful discussion on bangladesh-us ties, blake told reporters after the one-hour meeting. this is his first maiden visit to bangladesh since he succeeded richard a boucher in may. bnp secretary general khandaker delwar hossain, the chairperson's advisers riaz rahman and shamsher mobin chowdhury and us ambassador james f moriarty also attended the meeting at khaleda's gulshan office. shamsher mobin told reporters the meeting between the two leaders was a friendly one and focused on further strengthening bangladesh-us ties in future. blake arrived saturday afternoon on a two day visit to bangladesh. he is expected to meet prime minister sheikh hasina, foreign minister dipu moni, home minister sahara khatun and civil society members on sunday. bdnews2 --- mayor mohiuddin hospitalised  chittagong, june 15 (bdnews24.com)chittagong mayor abm mohiuddin chowdhury was admitted to hospital on monday after he had complained of chest pain. the mayor was rushed to medical centre hospital on or nizam road at around 10am, said dr selim jahan chowdhury, the chief medical officer, ccc, and also the mayor's son-in-law. a chronic patient of stomach ailments and diabetes, mohiuddin, also metropolitan awami league president, had been complaining of pain in his stomach and chest for some days, dr chowdhury told bdnews24.com. as the pain intensified and mohiuddin vomited in the morning, he was taken to the hospital and is in cabin 403, the son-in-law said. a medical board has been constituted comprising four doctors to assessment his condition. the doctors might be able to say something definitive about the nature of his illness in the afternoon --- two blasts in pakistan, anti-taliban cleric killed  lahore, fri jun 12, pakistan (bdnews24.com/reuters) - blasts went off in two different places in pakistan at about the same time on friday. one blast went off at an islamic school in the city of lahore. another went off near a mosque in the northwestern town of nowshera. a prominent anti-taliban pakistani muslim cleric was killed in a suicide bomb attack in lahore, police said. in another blast at around the same time, a suicide car-bomber set off explosives near a mosque in the northwestern town of nowshera, killing at least three people, police said. the blasts came as pakistani forces stepped up attacks on militants across the northwest after the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for the next five years. security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting against taliban militants in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad, and in recent days have begun operations in several other parts of the region. the militants have responded with a series of bomb attacks. moderate cleric sarfraz naeemi was attacked at his mosque complex just after leading friday prayers. "unfortunately, maulana sarfraz naeemi has been martyred," lahore police chief pervez rathore told reuters. in nowshera, in north west frontier province, three people were killed and more than 20 were wounded, police said. rising islamist violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states about its commitment to the global campaign against militancy. pakistan is a vital security ally for the united states as it struggles to stabilize neighboring afghanistan and defeat al qaeda. us officials said on thursday insurgent violence in afghanistan had accelerated sharply alongside the arrival of new us troops, reaching its highest level since 2001. us central intelligence agency director leon panetta said he believed al qaeda leader osama bin laden was hiding in pakistan and he hoped joint operations with pakistani forces would find him. helicopters attack police in bannu, a town in north west frontier province adjacent to the north waziristan militant stronghold on the afghan border, said the military had fired artillery through the night at militant positions in the jani kheil area. "since sunrise, helicopter gunships have also being used in the attack. there have been reports of casualties on the militant side but we aren't sure how many," police official sami ullah told reuters. more than 130 militants have been killed in the fighting near bannu this week up to thursday, according to military officers and a senior civilian official in the area. independent casualty estimates for the fighting in bannu and other parts of the northwest are not available. gunship helicopters also attacked militants in the bajaur and mohmand regions on the afghan border, both to the north of the city of peshawar, military officials and residents said. there has also been fighting this week in the south waziristan and orakzai ethnic pashtun tribal regions. the military's chief spokesman was not available for comment but an analyst said the various air strikes appeared aimed at keeping militants bottled up. "the operation in swat has entered its final stages and troops are engaging militants elsewhere to stop them going to swat and to disrupt their network," said mahmood shah, a former chief of security in the pashtun tribal areas. the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for the next five years in a key part of a strategy to combat extremism with economic and social development. the bill includes military aid with conditions that require the obama administration to certify that pakistan remains committed to fighting terrorist groups -- a provision that pakistan had criticized. the funding includes money for schools, the judicial system, parliament and law enforcement agencies. the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest has displaced about 2.5 million people and aid officials have appealed to donors to step up their  --- bangladesh betar launches in comilla  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com) - bangladesh betar went fully 'on air' in comilla on saturday, after running test programmes for an hour each day since may 15. "the present government believes in free flow of information," information minister abul kalam azad said, launching the new station. "every citizen has right to information." highlighting the importance of radio, he said it had an important role in involving people with public development work. he called on the media to play a greater role in raising overall public awareness of issues involving health, education, environment and social welfare. as azad was formally launching the station, local mps mujibul haq and nasimul alam chowdhury asked the minister for a local television broadcasting centre too. the minister requested that all the mps in comilla press for it together. mohammad mahbubul alam, director general of bangladesh betar, presided over the launch of the station at bangladesh betar bhaban in comilla. bdn --- pakistani warplanes strike waziristan region  islamabad, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistani warplanes struck a stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud on saturday, hours after president asif ali zardari vowed to wage war against militancy "to the end." us officials, thankful that their nuclear-armed ally has gone on the offensive to stop the taliban tide sweeping across the northwest, said they believed an operation had begun against mehsud's forces in the south waziristan, at the southeast extremity of the tribal belt bordering afghanistan. "we will continue this war to the end," zardari said in a televised address to the nation broadcast in the early hours of saturday morning. "this war has the support of parliament, the support of the political parties as well as the people of pakistan," he said. under pressure in their sanctuaries, islamist militants have responded with a wave of bomb attacks in pakistani cities, including one on tuesday that killed nine people and devastated the top hotel in peshawar, the main city in the northwest. in the past few days the pakistani military has expanded its theater of operations, and launched strikes on taliban fighters across the northwest, most notably in bannu district at the gateway to the waziristan region, where according to the military more than 130 militants have been killed since tuesday. the military says around 1,300 militants have been killed in swat and adjoining areas since the army swung into action in late april. independent casualty estimates were unavailable. rising violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states, which needs its muslim ally's support to defeat al qaeda and stabilize neighboring afghanistan. on thursday, the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for five years to help combat extremism through development. pakistan is now the biggest recipient of us aid. waziristan operations underway the airstrike on makeen village came amid expectations of an imminent military offensive in south waziristan, as the army enters the final stages of a campaign to rid the swat valley, northwest of the capital, of taliban. "four fighter jets bombed parts of makeen early on saturday but we don't know about the extent of damage or any casualties," said mohammad khan, a shopkeeper in the village. artillery also pounded militant positions in mehsud territory overnight after a fort at siplatoi came under rocket fire, according to intelligence officials in the area. praising pakistan's resolve in swat, us defense officials told reporters in washington that pakistani forces appeared to have commenced their operations yet in waziristan. one official said the pentagon anticipated combat operations against the mehsud network, blamed for many of the suicide attacks in pakistan, including the assassination of zardari's wife, former prime minister benazir bhutto, in december 2007. "we are pleased that this level of force is being contemplated," said the official, on condition of anonymity. al qaeda leader osama bin laden passed through waziristan on his escape from afghanistan in late 2001. the pakistani military began combat operations in waziristan in early 2004, but struck controversial peace deals with militants after each short-lived campaign. the military has used its air power in other parts of the northwest over the past few days. on saturday warplanes bombed militant hideouts in the mohmand tribal region, killing at least seven people, a paramilitary spokesman in the region said. and in bajaur, at the northeasterly end of the tribal belt, air strikes and artillery shelling killed nine militants, intelligence officials said. in the latest retaliatory attacks by militants, a prominent anti-taliban cleric who had condemned suicide bombings was killed on friday in a suicide attack in lahore, the capital of punjab province. two other people were killed and 11 wounded. also on friday, four people were killed and more than 60 were wounded when a car bomber attacked a mosque next to an army depot in the northwestern garrison town of nowshera. on saturday, militants attacked a police bus in kohat, killing one policeman and a passer-by and wounding nine police --- iranians vote in droves, mousavi ally claims lead  tehran, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranians streamed to polling stations on friday in a hotly contested election and a senior ally of mirhossein mousavi said the moderate candidate was on track to defeat hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad. an ahmadinejad adviser dismissed the claim as "psychological war" and said the outcome was impossible to predict. they were speaking a few hours before voting was officially due to end at 6 p.m. (9:30 a.m. edt), even though state media said it was likely to be extended due to an unprecedented turnout. a victory for mousavi might help ease tensions with the west, which is concerned about tehran's nuclear ambitions, and improve chances of engagement with us president barak obama who has talked about a new start in ties with tehran. sadegh kharazi, an ally of the former prime minister, told reuters that surveys made by reformers showed mousavi was getting enough votes to win outright in the first round. "i can say that based on our surveys ... mousavi is getting 58-60 pct of the vote and we are the winner," he said. ahmadinejad adviser ali akbar javanfekr said in response: "how can they predict? this is a psychological war they launched to influence voting." long queues formed at voting centers and the interior ministry said it expected a turnout of more than 70 percent, approaching the record of nearly 80 percent when reformist mohammad khatami swept the 1997 presidential election. some people said they had waited for more than two hours to cast ballots, both in northern, affluent areas of tehran where mousavi draws support and in southern, poorer neighborhoods seen as ahmadinejad strongholds. high turnout could indicate voting by many pro-reformers who stayed away when ahmadinejad won four years ago on a pledge to revive the values of the 1979 islamic revolution, although political analysts have said they expect a close race. the vote has generated interest around the world with policymakers looking for signs of a change of approach by tehran, whose ties with the west worsened under ahmadinejad. for iranians it is a chance to pass judgment on his management of the islamic republic's oil exporting economy. although ahmadinejad, 52, says his government has revived economic growth and curbed price rises, inflation and high unemployment were the main campaign issues. official inflation is around 15 percent. "miracle" social issues, such as strict dress codes for women, as well as iran's ties with the outside world, also featured in the campaign but the outcome of the vote will not bring a major shift in iran's foreign policy, which is determined by supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei. the united states has had no ties with iran since shortly after the revolution, but obama has offered a new relationship if tehran "unclenches its fist" mousavi, 67, rejects western demands that iran halt uranium enrichment but analysts say he would bring a different approach to iran-u.s. ties and talks on tehran's nuclear program, which the west fears is a cover to build bombs. iran denies this. "people's strong, revolutionary and clear decision will bring about a bright future for the nation," ahmadinejad, a self-styled champion of the poor with strong support in rural areas, said while voting in a working class part of tehran. the three-week election campaign was marked by mudslinging, with ahmadinejad accusing his rivals of corruption. they said he was lying about the state of the economy. mousavi's wife zahra rahnavard broke new ground in the conservative islamic state by actively campaigning for her husband, a move hailed by women's rights activists. preliminary results are expected early on saturday. if none of the candidates win 50 percent of the votes, a run-off will be held on june 19 between the two front-runners. businessman ahmad vakili, 45, said he voted for the first time to deny ahmadinejad a second term: "it is essential for iran to have a moderate president not a hard-liner. the economy is failing, foreign diplomacy is not working," he said. student mohammad ravanbakhsh voted for the incumbent: "only some rich people vote for moderates. ahmadinejad understands poor people. he understands ordinary iranians. he is one of us." ahmadinejad's election rivals, who also include liberal cleric mehdi karoubi and former revolutionary guard leader mohsen rezaie, have urged the interior ministry and khamenei to ensure there is no vote rigging. ahmadinejad has ruled out any possibility of fraud. voting in tehran alongside his wife, mousavi said some of his representatives were denied access to polling stations to monitor the process. he also said text messaging, used to reach young voters during the campaign, had been closed down. "i thank all the people for their green presence which created a miracle," he said, referring to the colors worn by his backers who thronged tehran streets during the camp --- us 'to assist' in war crimes trials: sahara  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  senior us official robert o blake has said his country will assist bangladesh in the trial of war criminals and safeguarding border areas. "the us supports our efforts to try war criminals and will extend assistance in this regard," home minister sahara khatun told reporters after a half-hour meeting with blake, us assistant secretary of state for south and central asian affairs. us ambassador james f moriarty also attended the meeting. "we informed [blake] that we are committed to the interests of the people in trying war criminals," said sahara. "if countries like the us and uk say do your work, we support you', it is a big support for us," she said. on what kind of assistance us might offer in protecting frontiers, sahara said: "we do need their assistance for the protection of our border areas. the foreign ministry can explain further." asked whether bangladesh faced any problem with border security, the home minister avoided a direct reply. blake arrived on saturday afternoon on a two-day visit, his first to bangladesh since succeeding richard a boucher in may. demands from civil society for the trial of those who committed crimes against humanity, during bangladesh's war of independence from pakistan, have gathered momentum in recent years. the awami league-led government, coming to power in january, is now taking steps to hold trials with the international community voicing support. the exact number of people killed by the then occupying pakistan army and their collaborators in bangladesh is not known, though most estimates put the figure at around three million. according to some reports, an estimated 200,000 women were raped during the bloody nine-month war in 1971. to date, no one has been brought to justice for these crimes. bdnew --- afghans hope iran poll brings us, tehran closer  herat, afghanistan, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - on the eve of iran's hard-fought presidential election, many afghans hope a victory for the more moderate of the two leading candidates could help ease tensions between their neighbour and the united states. moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi has launched a serious challenge to hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad, who maintains an unflinching stand against the united states despite president barack obama's suggestion of direct talks on a range of issues. victory for mousavi could raise the prospect of better ties between the islamic republic and the united states at a time when washington is struggling to stabilise afghanistan and secure stable and dependable supply routes for some 56,000 troops it has fighting an increasingly bitter taliban-led insurgency. "if iranian and american relations improve, it will have a positive impact on us, one hundred percent," said karim alemi, the manager of a hotel in herat city, about 125 km east of the border with iran. "most of the problems here that involve iran or pakistan are because of america's presence, and if america is opposed to them or they are opposed to america then it will be negative for us." a sudden thaw in us-iran ties after three decades of hostility is unlikely even if mousavi wins, partly because supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has the last say on foreign policy and iran's nuclear ambitions, which worry the west. but it could help in afghanistan. iranian influences are everywhere in western herat province, from the type of food served in restaurants to the millions of dollars worth of trade which takes place across the border each year. "if iran and america work together and cooperate more, then afghanistan's situation would definitely improve," said 19-year-old herat student nasser azimi. "i don't know that much about the elections but i know if mousavi wins, if there's a more reformist leader in iran, then it would be better for us here, too," azimi said. mousavi and former parliament speaker mehdi karoubi, the other moderate challenging ahmadinejad, have talked of a new page with washington. even though nothing can happen without the approval of khamenei, victory for mousavi or karoubi could at least put him under pressure to show flexibility. even though it is still a deeply religious province, women in herat don't suffer the same levels of violence and insecurity as those in south and east afghanistan. a more moderate iranian president could also have a positive influence on their rights. "we are hopeful that the removal of any limits to the rights of women in iran would benefit the world in general as well as have a positive effect on afghanistan," said soraya pakzhad, head of a women's rights organisation in herat. "with the programme that mr. mousavi has put forth, there is more hope of that," pakzhad said. "no one man is able or should be able to be in a position to remove rights from anyone, rights are above the power of one man and are of global interest. --- gaddafi complains not "rewarded" for renouncing wmd  rome, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - muammar gaddafi faced protests by students on thursday during his first visit to former colonial power italy, where he said the world had not rewarded libya for giving up its ambitions to have weapons of mass destruction. "we cannot accept living in the shadow of intercontinental missiles and nuclear weapons, which is why we decided to change route," the libyan leader told italian senators. "we had hoped libya would be an example to other countries," said gaddafi. "but we have not been rewarded by the world." the north african nation, once a pariah accused of sponsoring terrorism, has seen a thaw in its relations with the west since gaddafi promised to give up the search for weapons of mass destruction. international sanctions were lifted in 2003. italy, which last year apologized for italian atrocities during its 1911-1943 colonial rule, is at the forefront of the diplomatic thaw and now gets a quarter of its oil from libya, and more recently libyan capital injections into italian firms. but gaddafi retains a defiant tone, arriving in italy on wednesday with a picture pinned to his uniform of omar al-mukhtar, a resistance hero hanged by italian occupiers in 1931. italian television screens on thursday "lion of the desert," a 1981 film about al-mukhtar, banned in italy until now. gaddafi, who as current chairman of the africa union will attend a g8 summit in italy next month with u.s. president barack obama, also voiced criticism of the u.s-led war in iraq. "regimes of all kinds" "iraq was a fortress against terrorism, with saddam hussein al qaeda could not get in, but now thanks to the united states it is an open arena and this benefits al qaeda," said gaddafi in his speech to the italian senate. he also compared the u.s. air strike on tripoli in 1986, in which one of his daughters was killed, to an al qaeda attack. "what difference is there between the american attack on our homes in 1986 and bin laden's terrorist actions?" he asked. "if bin laden has no state and is an outlaw, america is a state with international rules." arguing that the world should have room for "regimes of all kinds" including "revolutionary" libya, he asked: "what's wrong with north korea wanting to be communist? or afghanistan being in the hands of the mullahs? is not the vatican a respectable theocratic state with embassies all over the world?" on wednesday, at a news conference with his host, prime minister silvio berlusconi, gaddafi said italy was "the only former colonial state today ... that we cannot reprimand any more" because of its decision to "clean up" its colonial past. berlusconi said libya agreed to supply more oil to italy, while the head of libya's sovereign wealth fund said he was eyeing investments in italian electricity and infrastructure companies and joint ventures with italy in libya. but students protesting at gaddafi's human rights record and at a bilateral agreement for italy to send back boatloads of african migrants crossing the mediterranean tried to stop him speaking at a rome university, hurling paint and scuffling with police. some senators from the opposition center-left also managed to get him blocked from speaking in the main chamber, forcing the speech to take place in a nearby a --- eto'o must respect wage structure, laporta says  new york june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - barcelona president joan laporta criticised the reported 68-million-euro ($94.05-million) fee real madrid paid for kaka and cautioned he would not match that money to extend samuel eto'o's contract. "kaka is a very good player, a very good talent, but the price that real madrid has paid for him is not the market price," laporta said on wednesday of the brazilian midfielder, who was signed from ac milan this week. "i hope that the next transfers put more common sense into the market price." laporta said he wanted to sign a new contract with eto'o but cautioned that the cameroon player's new contract would have to fit into the club's wage structure. "a lot of clubs would like eto'o in their team," said laporta. "we will do our best in order to renew his contract because he, in my opinion, is the best striker in the world." eto'o has one year remaining on his contract with the primera liga club and laporta said extending that "depends on two parties, but we have a wage structure that we will respect. "we would like to renew the contract with eto'o but not at any price because in this global economic crisis we have to be an example as well," laporta said. "i hope that he understands, and we will see in the next weeks." laporta was speaking at the opening of a unicef exhibition in new york of photographs documenting the impact of aids on children in swaziland. barcelona have the unicef logo on their shirts and the club's foundation has agreed to give the group 1.5 million euros a year until 2011 --- dutch and england cruise, hiddink lifts russia  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the netherlands and england continued churning out victories in their world cup qualification campaigns on wednesday while serbia took another big step towards next year's finals in south africa. russia were also impressive as coach guus hiddink returned to his international duties to inspire a 3-0 victory in finland that will keep germany on their toes. the dutch, who on saturday became the first european nation to book their place at next year's tournament, dispatched norway 2-0 in rotterdam to make it seven wins from seven in group nine. andre ooijer and arjen robben were both on target. nearly 60,000 england fans defied a strike which badly disrupted london's underground system to watch a 6-0 thrashing of andorra in group six, england's biggest win at wembley for nearly 10 years. like the netherlands, england have a maximum 21 points, although they still need one more victory to rubber-stamp their qualification for the finals. wayne rooney and jermain defoe both struck twice for fabio capello's side with frank lampard and peter crouch also on target. "the mood is very good in this squad," david beckham, who started an england match for the 100th time, told itv. "it's easy to say that when you're winning but it was like that before we started this campaign." england now boast a 10-point lead over second-placed croatia and ukraine who scraped a 2-1 home victory over kazakhstan to keep alive their hopes of finishing in the runners-up spot and earn a playoff against another second-placed nation. serbia are looking increasingly likely to qualify automatically as group winners after a 2-0 win in the faroe islands extended their lead over france at the top of group seven to eight points, although france have two games in hand. milan jovanovic and neven subotic scored for the serbians whose next match is at home to france in september. hiddink, who less than two weeks ago capped a successful assignment as temporary coach of premier league club chelsea by winning the fa cup, watched his russia side thump finland in helsinki to put the pressure on group four leaders germany who were not in action. alexander kerzhakov's double moved russia on to 15 points from six matches, one behind germany and five ahead of finland. sweden hit back from their weekend defeat at home to denmark with a 4-0 defeat of malta in gothenburg, although their chances of snatching even the runners-up spot in group one remain remote --- 2 ssc subjects to be tested under cqs next year  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the ssc examinations in the next year will have two subjects tested in the newly proposed creative questions system (cqs ) and in 2011, another two subjects will be included, the education minister has said. according to a previous decision, the system was to be followed for tests in all subjects for the ssc exams in 2011. in the next year's ssc exams, tests in bangla and religious studies papers will be taken as per the new system, nurul islam nahid said on thursday at a press conference at the education ministry. "in 2011, another two subjects will be added to bangla and religious studies papers," said nahid. the minister further said geography and general science in the humanities stream, business studies and general science in the commerce stream, and social science and chemistry in the science stream would be included in the 2011 ssc exams. the parliamentary standing committee on the education ministry on june 2 recommended the introduction of the much discussed 'creative questions system' in the ssc examinations, taking tests in only two subjects next year and increase subjects in phases. the ministry had decided in april last year to introduce the 'new system' next year starting with bangla paper i and religious studies to improve the quality of education. it was also decided then to apply the method to all the subjects while holding the 2011 ssc exams. many of the guardians, however, had been opposing the new proposition saying that that the examinees were yet not ready for it. under the cqs, the test paper will have two parts: one section will carry questions framed in the current system and the other will be meant to test an examinee's analytical capacity. an analytical question will have four parts againthe purpose of which should be to promote creative genius. rashed khan menon, chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on education, education secretary syed ataur rahman, joint secretary moyezuddin ahmed, secondary and higher secondary education director general professor nomanur rashid and dhaka board chairman md shamsul haque were present at the media briefing. bdne --- venezuelan slang key to bawdy chavez's success  caracas, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a head of state describing a mobile phone by using a crude term for male genitalia would spark outcry in most countries, but in venezuela such language is a big part of president hugo chavez's popular appeal. chavez has made vulgar language and insults a trademark of his decade in power. he once told the country he would have sex with his wife when he got home that day, has called americans "shits" and described former us president george w. bush as "the devil" and a "donkey." so it was no great surprise when he recently called the first cellphone to be made in venezuela the "vergatario," a word derived from a popular slang term for penis. the word is widely used in western venezuela to refer to something seen as high quality and it raised little more than giggles when chavez talked about the phone. the president's earthy and sometimes downright vulgar speech exasperates opponents who are often the target of his insults, but it helps explain the socialist's enduring popularity with followers who relate to his humble roots in a dirt-floored country hut. chavez, who studied to university level in a military academy, shot to fame after a failed coup in 1992. he went on to win the presidency in 1998 and his approval ratings remain above 50 percent after a decade of social spending and nationalizations in the south american oil exporter. "i'm going to call fidel castro on the vergatario. we won't be intercepted," chavez, a friend of the former cuban leader, said the week the phone was launched. chavez says he was not referring to male genitalia when he nicknamed the $14 phone, made using chinese technology and featuring a camera, radio and mp3 player. venezuelans use a particularly lewd version of spanish packed with references to male and female reproductive organs, genital lice and sexual orientation, and chavez -- apparently deliberately -- does not seek a more dignified presidential tone. last year, he launched into a lengthy description of his bowel functions during a televised address. on the streets of caracas, it is not uncommon to hear mothers refer to their children as "conitos" a diminutive that refers to female genitalia. such words are now so commonplace that they have all but lost their original meaning and power to shock. "venezuelans love that florid and elaborate language full of jargon and slang words," says linguist manuel bermudez of the venezuelan academy of language, adding that chavez plays on it deliberately. "it's calculated; that kind of discourse reaches the people." chavez uses "an embroidered quilt" of popular expressions derived from baseball and army slang, says bermudez, who follows the development of what he calls "chavezspeak." little yankee venezuelans' language may be coarse but presidents were for long expected to be a cut above the crowd, and many of chavez's opponents say he has caused a decline in standards. "the way he talks is very crude and it makes me feel ashamed," said maria luisa garcia, a 70-year-old social worker from the fashionable los palos grandes neighborhood in caracas. "a president needs to project a good image." "in a country where the majority of people are young, the language he uses is an influence on everyone else. it's for that reason that everyone has become ruder." chavez saves his sharpest jabs for his opponents. in recent years, he has resuscitated belittling colloquialisms such as "escualido" and "pitiyanqui". escualido is a popular term from the plains of western venezuela, used to describe something small or pathetic. chavez favored term is now "pitiyanqui", which derives from the french word "petit" meaning small and the spanish spelling for yankee. it was also used by some previous venezuelan presidents to describe dotage for the united states by the country's elites. opposition figures have embraced the insults as badges of identity, and they have also found retorts: when chavez spent billions of dollars buying arms from russia and invited its navy to one of venezuela's ports, his political foes took to calling him "pitiruso. --- iraq parliament sunni leader killed at mosque  baghdad, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the head of the iraqi parliament's biggest sunni muslim bloc was killed at a mosque on friday, officials said, an assassination which could undermine efforts for sectarian reconciliation in iraq. the killing coincided with coalition negotiations by parties before parliamentary polls due in january, seen as a key test of whether iraq's sunnis, shia and ethnic kurds can live at peace after years of bloodshed since the 2003 us invasion. harith al-ubaidi, head of the accordance front, and a member of the parliament's human rights committee, was leaving a mosque in west baghdad after friday prayers when he was killed. "he was at a mosque. an armed man shot him with a pistol, then threw a grenade at him inside the al-shawaf mosque," said saleem al-jubouri, a spokesman for the accordance front. "it could be al qaeda behind this event or another armed group. this shows that the security situation is still fragile and dangerous. the government must provide more security," he added. accounts of the assassination varied. a witness said the attacker was a suicide bomber, who ran up to ubaidi and hugged him before detonating one or more grenades. police said six people were killed, including the attacker, after the assassin opened fire randomly on worshippers before detonating a grenade. they said the attacker, aged from 15 to 18 years old, shot ubaidi twice in the head. "assassinations of political leaders have a huge effect on national peace, and these acts are meant to stoke renewed sectarian strife between sunnis and shia, and also within feuding factions among the sunnis," said hazim al-nuaimi, a political analyst at baghdad university. prime minister nuri al-maliki warned on thursday of the likelihood of increasing violence before next year's election. the withdrawal by us combat troops from urban centers by the end of the month is another flashpoint for increasing att --- tevez misses penalty as ecuador beat argentina  quito, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - carlos tevez missed a first-half penalty as argentina slumped to a 2-0 defeat away to ecuador in their world cup qualifier on wednesday. left-back walter ayovi, with a superb 25-metre strike, and pablo palacios scored in the last 20 minutes to hand argentina their second defeat in four world cup qualifiers under diego maradona. lionel messi also squandered a superb early chance for argentina, who at least improved on their 6-1 defeat to bolivia in another high altitude match in april. despite the result at 2,800 metres above sea level, argentina remained in the top four of the 10-team south american group with 22 points from 14 games while ecuador jumped to fifth place on 20 points. the top four in the 10-team group qualify directly for south africa and the fifth plays off over two legs against the fourth team from concacaf. "the didn't do anything in the first half," maradona told reporters. "in the second half, they got a couple of rebounds and they scored two goals. "if we had scored a goal, it would have finished the game off." ecuador coach sixto vizuete said: "these three points are worth their weight in gold and we're satisfied because we beat great opponents." outstanding chance messi wasted an outstanding chance after 10 minutes when he side-footed gabriel heinze's low cross wide of the goal from six metres. argentina had an even better chance when tevez was upended by ecuador goalkeeper marcelo elizaga just inside the penalty area and referee carlos chandia pointed to the spot. argentine-born elizaga escaped the red card, even though he was the last man when he lunged at tevez, and then saved tevez's weak penalty by diving low to his left in the 28th minute. messi, who fired over from the rebound, then created another chance with a solo run but shot into the side-netting. ecuador's best first-half efforts were long-range shots from jefferson montero and antonio valencia. ecuador took control after halftime and continued to try their luck from long-range as ayovi tested mariano andujar with a dipping free kick and segundo castillo forced him to turn a powerful drive around the post. the hosts broke through when argentina lost possession and palacios laid the ball into the path of ayovi who scored with a rising shot from 25 metres. substitute palacios fired home the second from inside the penalty area with seven minutes left before valencia hit the post with another long-range effort in injury-time --- japan pm support sinks, opposition widens lead  tokyo, mon jun 15, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - japanese prime minister taro aso and his ruling party suffered fresh setbacks on monday as surveys showed his support had sunk again ahead of an election while the opposition democratic party widened its lead among voters. aso has come under renewed fire for lack of leadership after a highly public feud that prompted his internal affairs minister to resign on friday, sparking speculation that the ruling party may seek to dump him ahead of an election many expect in august. a weekend survey by kyodo news agency showed that support for aso's cabinet had sunk nearly nine points to 17.5 percent. kyodo said 47.8 percent planned to vote for the democrats in the next election, while support for the ruling liberal democratic party (ldp), which has enjoyed five decades of almost unbroken rule, stood at 18.7 percent. the election must be held by october. kunio hatoyama -- a close aso ally who is also the brother of democratic party leader yukio hatoyama -- resigned after the prime minister refused to fire the head of japan post, which runs the postal office, over controversial property deals. the dispute also reflected deep divides within the ldp over privatising the postal system including its financial arms, proposals backed by most voters when they gave the ruling bloc a huge victory in the last general election in 2005. hatoyama, the third minister to resign since aso, 68, took office last year, told reporters on monday he had no plan to leave the ldp or form a new group, but declined to rule out that possibility in the future. tokyo election in focus a democratic party victory in the election for parliament's powerful lower house would bring to power a party which has pledged to pay more heed to the interests of consumers and workers than corporations. the democrats have also vowed to pry control of policy-making from bureaucrats as a way to cut waste and to adopt a diplomatic stance more independent of close security ally the united states. in another sign of the conservative ldp's troubles, an opposition candidate won a closely-watched mayoral election on sunday. japanese media speculated that aso's latest troubles could fuel moves in the ldp to oust him, especially if the party fares poorly in a july 12 tokyo metropolitan assembly election being billed as a bellwether for the national poll. "if there are going to be moves to oust aso before the general election, it would most probably be after the tokyo election," said koichi nakano, a professor at sophia university in tokyo. "of course, that is late, but it could be quite lethal for aso because he's putting his weight behind it." in the second local election victory for the democrats since they replaced scandal-tainted leader ichiro ozawa last month, candidate toshihito kumagai, 31, defeated a rival supported by the ldp to become mayor of the city of chiba near tokyo. a separate survey by the mainichi newspaper put support for aso's cabinet at 19 percent, with more than two-thirds of voters disapproving of his handling of the dispute over japan post. thirty-two percent preferred yukio hatoyama as next prime minister compared to 15 percent who chose aso. more than half said they wanted the democrats to win the next elec --- gen mubeen takes over as army chief  dhaka, june 15 (bdnews24.com)  newly appointed army chief general md abdul mubeen took up his new office on monday, the inter service public relations said in a statement. mubeen formally signed in the command takeover document at the army headquarters and took the baton from outgoing army chief general moeen u ahmed. on assuming office, the new army chief called on the prime minister as well as defence minister, sheikh hasina, the statement said. navy chief rear admiral zu ahmed and air chief air marshal sm ziaur rahman wore mubeen the rank badge in presence of the prime minister . defence secretary kamrul hassan and other high military officers watched the ceremony. gen mubin, former goc in jessore and chittagong, was made principal staff officer to the armed forces division exactly a year ago, on june 4, 2008, in a major reshuffle of top army posts. mubin, named new chief on june 4, made a well-received televised statement on the night of feb 27 to clarify that the 'general amnesty' the government had declared during the feb 25-26 bdr mutiny did not mean that rebel bdr border guards involved in killings, arson and other crimes would go unpunished. earlier, the outgoing army chief placed floral wreaths at shikha onirban at the army headquarters. he paid tribute to the martyred armed force members and signed in the visitors' book. a smart contingent of armed forces offered moeen guard of honour at senakunja. he was seen off in an armoured vehicle, according to the army tradition. bdne --- budget without substance: cpb  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com) - the communist party of bangladesh has termed the proposed budget for 2009-10 as one without substance. "it looks good from the outside, but its substance and policy are bad," cpb general secretary mujahidul islam told bdnews24.com in an instant reaction to finance minister ama muhith's budget speech on thursday. "the government cannot hide that fact that the budget aims to facilitate looters and protect their interests," he said, referring to a major provision for 'whitening black money'. the budget is mainly "window-dressing", he said. "the problems of working people have been ignored," said the cpb leader. "looters demands are being realised, but actual problems in farming and industrial sectors have been left unresolved as before." this awami league's maiden budget was the latest addition "to a plundered economy of three decades," he said. "there is no novelty in the budget other than rhetoric," said islam. b --- mike tyson weds in las vegas  los angeles, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former heavyweight boxing champion mike tyson has married for the third time, tying the knot with girlfriend lakiha spicer in las vegas, the owner of a wedding chapel said on tuesday. the wedding comes about two weeks after his 4 year-old daughter, exodus, from another woman died in what police described as an accident at her arizona home. the youngster was choked by a cord from a treadmill. tyson's marriage to spicer took place on saturday in a private ceremony at the la bella wedding chapel, its owner shawn absher told reuters. "no guests whatsoever, just the bride and groom," absher said. "very intimate, sincere. mike seemed very happy." tyson's union with spicer is his third marriage. he was previously married for one year to actress robin givens and for five years to a doctor, monica turner. he retired from boxing in 2005 after a career marked by controversy. tyson, 42, has a cameo in comedy "the hangover," which opened on friday and was the no. 1 movie at us and canada box offices over the weekend with nearly $45 mil --- netanyahu bows to obama, accepts palestinian `state'  ramat gan, israel, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has finally responded to uncommon pressure from washington by giving his endorsement for the first time on sunday to the establishment of a palestinian state -- with conditions. but in a speech answering president barack obama's address to the arab world 10 days ago, the right-wing leader's defense of jewish settlement on occupied land may fail to dispel tension with the white house, as the two men try to set new terms for the middle east peace process in their first months in office. obama called netanyahu's shift in position on palestinian statehood an "important step forward," even as aides to palestinian president mahmoud abbas were denouncing the speech as "sabotaging" negotiations by restating israel's refusal to share the city of jerusalem or accept palestinian refugees. netanyahu, who has refused to back a state for palestinians since he took office in march, said he would now endorse the establishment of a such a state -- but only if israel received in advance international guarantees the new nation would have no army and palestinians recognized israel as a jewish state. "if we receive this guarantee regarding demilitarization and israel's security needs, and if the palestinians recognize israel as the state of the jewish people, then we will be ready in a future peace agreement to reach a solution where a demilitarized palestinian state exists alongside the jewish state," netanyahu said at bar ilan university near tel aviv. "if (obama) looks at the glass as half-full, this should be sufficient," israeli political scientist eitan gilboa said of the speech as a whole. "but if he is looking for confrontation with israel, he would say the glass if half-empty." a senior european diplomat in the middle east questioned how far it changed the substance of israel's approach. "it's goodwill and good words but i don't think it's going to appease the americans," the diplomat said. "he's trying to gain time." white house welcome "the president welcomes the important step forward in prime minister netanyahu's speech," the white house said. "the president is committed to two states, a jewish state of israel and an independent palestine, in the historic homeland of both peoples." palestinian leaders have rarely made an issue of israel's insistence that their future state should not have an army in a position to threaten its neighbor, but they have rejected the demand that they explicitly accept israel as a jewish state. to do so, they have argued, weakens the position of the 20 percent of israel's citizens who are muslim and christian arabs, and undermine a key demand for a right of return to what is now israel for millions of palestinians classed as refugees since the flight of arabs during israel's creation in 1948. the white house reference to obama's support of "a jewish state of israel" may reassure israelis, who will also hear in his reference to "the historic homeland of both peoples" an echo of netanyahu's robust defense on sunday of the jews' 3,000-year-old claim to the land and to the city of jerusalem. palestinian leaders voiced their opposition, especially to the israeli premier's flat rejection of any right of return for refugees or of a division of jerusalem, where palestinians want to have the capital of their new state. abbas spokesman nabil abu rdainah said: "netanyahu's remarks have sabotaged all initiatives, paralyzed all efforts being made and challenges the palestinian, arab and american positions." saeb erekat, who has negotiated interim peace accords, said: "the peace process has been moving at the speed of a tortoise. tonight, netanyahu has flipped it over on its back." he reiterated the palestinian demand that israel freeze all expansion of the settlements that are home to some half a million jews in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem. settlements dispute obama, too, in what has been the frostiest spell in us relations with israel in a decade or more, has made a halt to settlements a personal demand. netanyahu repeated his agreement not to build more settlements but indicated he still wanted to allow what is called "natural growth" of existing ones. "we have no intention of building new settlements," he said. "but there is a need to enable the residents to live normal lives, to allow mothers and fathers to raise their children." netanyahu is conscious that a harder crackdown on settlers could fracture his right-leaning coalition government. the white house did not comment on settlements but did say obama would ensure all parties "fulfill their obligations." under the 2003 "road map to peace," worked out under us sponsorship, israel committed to freezing settlement activity. netanyahu reiterated his readiness to meet all arab leaders in the region and urged palestinians to resume peace talks. it was not immediately clear whether abbas would accept netanyahu's call to resume talks. abbas has made a halt to settlement a condition for renewing negotiations. with gaza in the hands of abbas's islamist rivals hamas, who reject interim peace deals and continue to attack israel, there seems little immediate prospect of ending more than 60 years of conflict. however, diplomats say, engagement by obama that puts pressure on all sides has raised hopes after years of stalemate --- it firms urge china to reconsider filter  beijing, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a washington-based group representing information technology companies called on china on wednesday to reconsider its requirement that internet filtering software be bundled with new computers. chinese regulations mandate "green dam," a program developed by jinhui computer system engineering co., be pre-installed on personal computers manufactured or shipped after july 1. china says the filter is designed to block pornography. the move has raised concerns from industry as well as rights groups, ranging from worries about compatibility and support for the software to cyber-security and internet freedoms. "the information technology industry council, the software & information industry association, the telecommunications industry association and techamerica urge the chinese government to reconsider implementing its new mandatory filtering software requirement and would welcome the opportunity for a meaningful dialogue," said a joint statement. "we believe there should be an open and healthy dialogue on how parental control software can be offered in the market in ways that ensure privacy, system reliability, freedom of expression, the free flow of information, security and user choice," it said. members include many leading american computer manufacturers and software developers. the document requiring the software was formally published by the ministry of industry and information technology on tuesday, after being circulated to computer manufacturers in mid-may. chinese authorities had earlier assured manufacturers that the software would only be required for computers sold in schools. the project to develop the filtering software had the "strong support" of chinese propaganda chief and fifth-ranked official li changchun, according to project documents seen by reuters. closed for maintenance by tuesday evening, the user feedback portion of a website for downloading (www.lssw365.net) the software was "under maintenance." jinhui's website, which was also inaccessible, had crashed due to too much traffic, said founder bryan zhang. "this software is optional for the user and not mandatory, this is the main point," zhang said, adding it would be shipped with new computers to avoid the cost of advertising the service. "it's just for people who care about children, and protecting them from porn. the user is very free to delete it." many chinese newspapers carried the news of the regulation on their front pages on wednesday, generally describing it as an anti-pornography measure but raising concerns about consumers' right to privacy. the beijing times accompanied its story with pie charts from an independent web survey, showing that most survey respondents thought the software violated privacy and were not willing to pay for it once the free one-year subscription expired. but the government stood by the regulation. "if you have children or are expecting a child you could understand the concerns of the parents over unhealthy online content," chinese foreign ministry spokesman qin gang told reporters on tuesday. "the internet in china is open and the chinese government is devoted to developing it. but the government also administers the internet according to the law to prevent the spread of harmful cont --- us skeptical netanyahu will back down: diplomats  jerusalem, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united states doubts a policy speech israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu is to deliver next week will satisfy president barack obama's peacemaking demands, western diplomats said on thursday. netanyahu's refusal to commit to a building freeze in jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and to endorse the goal of establishing a palestinian state -- both set out in a 2003 peace "road map" -- has opened a rare rift in us-israeli relations. signaling the direction netanyahu could take when he delivers his policy speech on sunday, israeli president shimon peres raised in a meeting with a european envoy the possibility of an interim palestinian state with provisional borders. that option, which has been rejected by the palestinians, is part of the road map, a plan backed by washington. briefing their counterparts in the quartet of middle east mediators after talks with netanyahu, us officials voiced skepticism he would make the clear, far-reaching and tangible commitments on settlements or statehood that obama has sought, participants said on condition of anonymity. "the americans are not satisfied with what they have been told," a senior western diplomat said. netanyahu wants to negotiate a compromise whereby washington would permit at least some "natural growth," or construction within existing settlements to accommodate growing families, but, so far, obama has refused to back down, diplomats said. "they are saying things like, 'adding a room in a house is not natural growth,'" another western diplomat said of netanyahu's exchanges with obama's middle east envoy, george mitchell, in jerusalem this week. road map israeli officials said netanyahu had not finalized his speech but it would focus on the road map, which envisages creation of a palestinian state alongside israel. they said he would urge arab countries to talk peace with israel. israeli officials and several western diplomats said it was unclear whether netanyahu would use the address to endorse explicitly the u.s.-backed goal of statehood. a senior western diplomat said netanyahu was likely to stop short of backing the creation of a state and promise instead to work toward a vague goal of palestinian self-government. to sidestep the issue, netanyahu could implicitly accept a two-state solution by stressing his government's acceptance of the road map as part of its pledge to honor diplomatic agreements signed by previous israeli administrations. but diplomats said this would not satisfy washington. under the road map, a provisional palestinian state would have temporary borders and "attributes of sovereignty ... as a way station to a permanent status settlement." but palestinian negotiator saeb erekat said that was a non-starter. "we have already told the quartet that this is not an option for us," erekat said about a provisional state. "we don't need any more interim periods. we need to focus on the end game." netanyahu has offered "immediate" talks with palestinian president mahmoud abbas and arab leaders but has not said what they would cover. abbas has said negotiations would be useless unless netanyahu committed to statehood and a settlement freeze. netanyahu has said any palestinian entity must be demilitarized and have limited powers of sovereignty. halting construction in settlements or opening talks on territorial issues could bring down his right-leaning government. "it's 'yes or no'," erekat said. "accept the two-state solution, 'yes or no', a settlement freeze, 'yes or no', permanent-status negotiations, 'yes or no  --- power to get 3520 mw boost in 5 years: pm  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)power plants with combined production of 3520 megawatts will be set up by 2014 to boost the crisis-ridden national grid, the prime minister told parliament on wednesday. "a programme has been undertaken under short, medium and long-term plans with participation of private and public sectors," sheikh hasina said, speaking in a question-answer session. "some 726 mw electricity will be available by june 2009 on short term; 900 mw by june 2012 on medium term and 1895 mw by june 2014 on longer term," she elaborated. "this power will be added to the national grid." besides, some 45 mw electricity would be added by setting up small plants under the rural electrification board, she said. hasina replied to nine questions of which two were written and six were supplementary. bnp was absent from the house like other days of the current budget session. asked by shahiduzzaman sarkar of naogaon about the navigability of the rivers, she said, "the government has taken up a master plan to dredge rivers to make them navigable." "a high-powered committee headed by the prime minister has been formed for the purpose." "we will go for dredging all the rivers of the country. we have discussed (the matter) with the world bank and donor agencies." "dredging is planned for big rivers like the padma, meghna and jamuna. rivers will get back their navigability and amounts of land will also increase as a result." she had announced on world environment day on june 5 that rivers would be reverted to their earlier grandeur at any cost. replying to a supplementary of rashed khan menon, she said, "to check climate change and environment, the present government is collecting money for different projects from donors without any condition." "we will not take money with condition. besides, by creating water reservoirs in haor areas, moves will be taken for generation of electricity." the prime minister called upon all to go for increased greening and aforestation in north bengal to save it from desertification. replying to a question from majibul huq chunnu, she said the government has decided to take up a programme styled 'work for the absolute poor' in 480 upazilas for the year 2009-10. under the programme, priority will be given to rickshaw-pullers in the capital and slum dwellers who want to go back to the village. the government will restart 'go back home' programme of 1996. hasina responded to a supplementary query of independent mp fazul azim to say that vocational training institute will be set up in each upazila. "besides, arrangements will be made to provide small loans to the unemployed under the self-employment programme." on a question from mollah jalauddin of khulna she said unbridled rises in prices of essentials had been checked due to firm steps of her government. bdnew --- ronaldo bid could stimulate market, says hughes  manchester, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - manchester united winger cristiano ronaldo's proposed 80 million pounds ($131.2 million) move to real madrid could invigorate the transfer market, manchester city manager mark hughes said on thursday. "it's a significant amount of money and it's a huge outlay. "it may well stimulate the market now," hughes told reporters. "there is a lot of money out there now. the levels of money required now to attract the best players in the world is huge. "manchester united must feel it is good business for them. (manager) sir alex (ferguson) makes key decisions very quickly and he must think it's the right thing for the club. you have to respect that," hughes said. the world record bid for manchester united winger ronaldo comes days after real paid around 67 million euros ($94.02 million) for brazilian kaka, who turned down a move from ac milan to manchester city for a reported 100 million pounds in the january transfer window. "i'm sure that they (real madrid) are very pleased with the business that they have been allowed to do, acquiring kaka and the likelihood is that they have acquired ronaldo too, hughes said. hughes, who knows a thing or two about spending money after splashing out a british record of around 32.5 million pounds on brazilian robinho last year has been linked in the media with strikers carlos tevez of manchester united and valencia's david villa. "we are still looking to address areas of the team and squad but we have to make sure that the quality we attract here is the right quality," the former manchester united player said --- venezuela tv channel urges chavez talks  caracas, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a private venezuelan tv news channel threatened with closure by president hugo chavez urged dialogue with the government on saturday after authorities fined the station and raided one top executive's property. chavez's targeting of globovision, a fiercely anti-government channel, has fueled concerns over press freedom in the opec nation, where the government two years ago refused to renew a broadcasting license to another station. a socialist allied with cuba, chavez has long accused globovision of seeking to undermine his government and promote civil unrest. but critics say renewed threats to the channel illustrate his increasingly tough line with opponents. "the president should know that if he wants to talk we are ready," globovision owner alberto ravell told reporters. "we should have a dialogue like in any civilized country. our door is always open, now it is up to the president to decide." closing down globovision would likely trigger international criticism of chavez. but it could further weaken his opponents and would be popular with core chavez's supporters who blame the channel for backing a brief 2002 coup and an oil strike aimed at ousting him. globovision says it has broken no law and says it is being harassed for its editorial line. but a government watchdog is now reviewing all private broadcast permits. "the president has called and told us to behave correctly or he'll close us down," ravell said. "but what is behaving correctly? not informing people?" authorities this month hit globovision with a $2 million back-tax fine and officials have twice raided its president's property, saying he was illegally reselling cars and had kept rare stuffed animals. he has been charged with usury. small groups of globovision supporters took to the streets in mainly wealthier parts of the capital caracas on saturday to collect cash to help the station pay its tax fine. chavez remains popular after spending oil wealth on projects for the poor as part of his socialist revolution. the former soldier is nationalizing key industries and carrying out an offensive on foes, including stripping powers from some elected opposition leaders --- british minister concerned at ronaldo, kaka precedent  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - english clubs should not try and compete with real madrid's incredible spending frenzy, sports minister gerry sutcliffe said on thursday. real had a world record 80 million-pound ($131.2 million) offer for manchester united's cristiano ronaldo accepted on thursday having already splashed out around 60 million on ac milan's brazilian playmaker kaka this week. sutcliffe, a manchester united fan, said the kind of money real madrid are spending was not sustainable and said he has written to the premier league and the football association expressing his concerns for the english game. "we saw real spend 59 million pounds on kaka from milan just recently and that's why we have written to the premier league and the fa," sutcliffe told the bbc. "we are concerned about the sustainability of the game. they are big businesses and this type of money is around but we must make sure there is a link and that it's sustainable because we don't want to see clubs go to the wall." sutcliffe praised the success of the premier league, but said there were areas of concern over the management of clubs and the influx of foreign players. "there are several issues around the management of clubs and the transparency of clubs, home-grown players and a number of things we want to see the game sustain right the way through," sutcliffe said. "we have the most successful league in the world in the premier league, long may that continue, but we have got to make sure that the grassroots of the game are protected and its sustainable right through our league system." sutcliffe said ronaldo's proposed move to real would be good business for united, who spent only 12 million pounds to sign him from sporting in 2003, but said they should not always be looking abroad for replacements. "there is not one player bigger than the club and the club comes first and that's clearly what has been decided," he said. "they have a good youth policy and we have seen many home grown players come through the youth structure. --- communications to get crucial boost  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the planned budget allocates tk 6100 crore to crumbling communications, a much-needed 34 percent boost over the outgoing fiscal year, and outlines an ambitious integrated transport policy with support from the newly introduced ppp initiative. "physical infrastructure as well as the communication sectors have still to go a long way to meet our needs," said finance minister ama muhith in his budget speech thursday. "the communication network that has been built (since independence) combining roads, railways, waterways and airways is neither integrated nor consistent with the socio-economic realities of the country," said muhith. "coordinated development" of road, rail and waterways will be undertaken through the newly introduced public-private partnership scheme, he said. steps have already been taken to implement the construction of padma bridge project at mawa and the construction of karnafuli hanging bridge projects on a priority basis, said muhith. feasibility studies for construction of the four-lane dhaka-chittagong expressway are also well underway, he added. modern rail in order to modernise railways, the bangladesh railway sector improvement project is being implemented at a cost of about tk 3,601 crore, said muhith. the project, to be completed by 2014, will build a double-line rail track between tongi and bhairab bazaar with signaling system. there is also a component to turn bangladesh railway into a corporate entity. a feasibility study project has been taken up for construction of an underground metro system. according to an agreement to integrate bangladesh with the trans-asian railway system, the government will also consider development of both metre-guage and broad-gauge tracks along the same routes while modernizing the bangladesh railway. dhaka stp the government has approved a strategic transport plan for dhaka, said muhith. a feasibility study project for the construction of an elevated expressway and a tunnel between tejgaon and the airport is under consideration. steps have also been taken to construct the dhaka eastern bypass. all alternatives to reduce traffic jam will be explored carefully, he said. in order to solve the problems of public transportation in dhaka city and to ease traffic gridlock, an existing project for circular waterways around the city will be made effective. ports the construction of the new mooring container terminal on a supply, operate and transfer basis is well underway to enhance the capacity of chittagong port, said muhith. plans for setting up a deep seaport at sonadia is well in progress. a project for procurement of cargo handling equipment and capital dredging for mongla port is being implemented. with a view to modernising the mongla port, the government has taken up a plan to construct a multi-purpose jetty with highly sophisticated facilities and to excavate the poshur river and the harbour areas, said muhtih. two incomplete jetties at mongla port will be developed "in the long term". a decision has also been taken to operate 12 land ports under the bangladesh land port authority on a bot basis retaining only one at benapole under government management, said muhith. bdn --- fresh data suggests recession abating  washington, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - sales at us retailers rose in may and the number of workers filing new applications for jobless benefits fell for a fourth straight week last week, according to official data on thursday that suggested the recession was abating. the commerce department said total retail sales rose 0.5 percent, the first advance in three months, lifted by strong gasoline and building material receipts. sales fell 0.2 percent in april. a separate report from the labor department showed the number of us workers filing new claims for jobless aid fell 24,000 to 601,000 in the week ended june 6, the lowest since january 24. "it looks like we are turning the corner. there is pretty clear evidence that the worst of the labor downturn has passed, but we still expect more job losses," said zach pandl an economist at nomura securities international in new york. us stock index futures briefly rose on the reports. the reports bolstered the argument that the economy's severe recession was close to hitting a bottom, with growth likely to return in the second half of the year. the sales report raised optimism that consumer spending would probably be flat to modestly lower in the second quarter, instead of falling sharply as expected by most analysts. spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of us economic activity, rose 1.5 percent in the january-march period, after a 4.3 percent dive in the fourth quarter. still, retail sales were partly boosted by increases in gasoline prices, which could crimp consumers' wallets. "the tender green shoots could be snuffed out by the frost of higher mortgage rates and gasoline prices," said t.j. marta, chief market strategist at marta on the markets in scotch plains, new jersey. gasoline sales jumped 3.6 percent in may after dropping 0.8 percent the previous month. excluding gasoline, retail sales rose 0.2 percent. sales of building materials climbed 1.3 percent in may, the biggest advance since april last year, after falling 0.6 percent in april. excluding motor vehicles and parts, sales rose 0.5 percent in may, compared to a 0.2 decline the prior month, the commerce department said. vehicles and parts sales rose 0.5 percent after a 0.4 percent fall in april. soft spots in the report included sales of electronic goods, which fell 0.5 percent in may after declining 0.9 percent the previous month. while initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits declined for the fourth straight week, the number of people staying on the benefit rolls after collecting an initial week of aid rose to a record 6.82 million in the week of may 30, the latest week for which data is available. it was the 19th week in a row so-called continued claims set a record, the labor department said. the 4-week moving average for new claims, considered to be a better gauge of underlying trends because it smooths out week-to-week volatility, fell to 621,750, the lowest since februar --- malawi court allows madonna to adopt second child  blantyre, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us pop star madonna was allowed to adopt a second child from malawi on friday after the country's supreme court overturned a lower court ruling in a case that has been criticised by local rights groups. chief justice lovemore munlo said madonna had shown an interest in helping malawi orphans and that 4-year-old mercy james would have a better life with the star. he said a lower court had erred in turning down the adoption request because madonna was not resident in malawi. "we find the judge in the lower court to have dwelled so much on media reports on the issue of residence and to us this was not evidence enough to deny madonna a chance to adopt mercy james. we therefore grant madonna the adoption order," munlo said. "madonna has shown that she is bold, and compassionate enough to come forward to adopt chifundo james." the supreme court ruling cannot be challenged. madonna's lawyer said the singer welcomed the ruling. "i've just talked to madonna and she's very excited about this news," lawyer alan chinula told reuters. malawi's government came under fire after madonna adopted a 13-month-old child, david banda, in 2006, with critics accusing it of giving her special treatment by skirting laws that ban non-residents from adopting children. rights groups accused the government of giving madonna, a u.s. citizen, special treatment. the government had supported madonna's attempt to adopt mercy, saying she was a worthy mother. the eye on child non-governmental organisation that has been protesting the adoption said it was dissapointed. "of course we are disappointed with the ruling because we know that adoption should only be granted as the last resort," said executive director maxwell matewele. "but we also appreciate that the ruling is looking at guidelines that may help to deter would-be child traffickers." an aids epidemic in the southern african country has orphaned more than one million children and madonna has set up a charity for malawian children. in her ruling in april, high court judge esimie chombo warned against celebrity adoptions, saying they could lead to child trafficking. madonna has entertained millions around the world with hits like "material girl" and "papa don't preach," creating a fair amount of controversy along the way. the star, who was divorced last year from british film director guy ritchie, is one of the music industry's most successful singers, with album sales of more than 200 mil --- uae won't recruit workers now  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)the united arab emirates said on wednesday it will not recruit more bangladeshis during the ongoing economic recession but promised to take people in after the gulf nation gets over the downturn. the uae's foreign minister shaikh abdullah bin zayed al nahyan, during an eight-hour visit to dhaka, also pledged to resolve problems bangladeshi workers face in his country. at a joint press conference with foreign minister dipu moni, he said his country would invest in bangladesh after signing deals on avoidance of double taxation and protection of investment. nahyan had talks with prime minister sheikh hasina and foreign minister dipu moni on uae investment in power, infrastructure, tourism and agriculture sectors. "we are very much interested in investing in tourism, but before we get into these details we have to have the right and proper dynamics, then we orgainse it. "that is why, i have mentioned the importance of having and finalising an agreement on avoidance of double taxation and the importance of finalising an agreement on protection of investment," nahyan told reporters at the foreign ministry before leaving dhaka for india. dipu moni said, "they have shown interest in investing in the infrastructure, power, agriculture, tourism and other sectors. "but the joint commission, which last met 17 years before, headed by the finance ministers, will meet sometimes before september to finalise the deals on investment protection and avoidance of double taxation," she said. "the two deals are at the final stage of signing." the bilateral trade volume between bangladesh and the uae is about $350 million. on recruitment of more workers, the uae foreign minister said, "of course, i have heard that from the foreign minister asking for more bangladeshis to be appointed. "but for the time being, it will be very difficult to do that. as you know that the uae economy is privately driven. "it is very difficult for us to come up with quotas or ask our private sector to bring one more national. "but i believe the bangladeshi workers are quite professional." the minister said more bangladeshis would be appointed after the current economic slowdown was over. "i tell you one good news that the global economic meltdown has not been as bad as many of experts have predicted. so, it may not last long," he said. he admitted that 700,000 bangladeshi workers had been facing problems from the recruiting companies. "there are some problems. we do not undermine it anyway. "but the uae has been taking the lead in our part of the world in solving these issues and preparing the infrastructure to ensure better way of life including health and education," he said. nahyan said the gulf emirate had already implemented a decision on providing workers the salaries through banks. the minister arrived in dhaka at 12:30pm and left at 8:30pm. --- solana sees chance for reviving mideast peace talks  jerusalem, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - recent events in the middle east could revive israeli-palestinian peace talks if prime minister benjamin netanyahu sets the right tone in a speech on sunday, european union foreign policy chief javier solana said. "a lot of important things are taking place," solana told reporters on thursday in jerusalem, the first stop on a diplomatic trip for talks with israeli, palestinian, lebanese and egyptian leaders. he cited us president barack obama's speech in cairo a week ago addressed to the arab and muslim world, in which he spoke of the urgent need for a middle east peace settlement. solana also cited this month's election result in lebanon which western powers took as a promising development since iranian-backed hezbollah failed to score a breakthrough. he looked forward to friday's election in iran, where hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad faces a challenge from moderate mirhossein mousavi. this could be a good moment, solana said, to "see how we can bring back the situation to something that can be moving in the right direction," after a year of no progress in the peace process, and an israeli military offensive in the gaza strip. it would be helpful if netanyahu in his policy speech made a commitment to the "two-state solution" and to a freeze on jewish settlements in the israeli-occupied west bank, the top eu diplomat said. "that's what we expect to hear and i am sure something of that nature will happen." he declined to speculate on how the eu might react if netanyahu, who heads a right-leaning coalition including parties opposed to any halt to settlements, continues to dodge endorsement of a peace agreement based on palestinian statehood. western powers and previous israeli governments endorse the principle of two states as the only viable solution. obama's speech was well received in the arab world, solana said. "if we continue working in that direction and we have an impulse on the part of prime minister netanyahu we may be able to begin ta --- spain head trio of confederations cup favourites  johannesburg, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - record-breaking european champions spain head a trio of serious contenders for next year's world cup who are afforded the rare chance of a dress rehearsal in the upcoming confederations cup. spain, brazil and world champions italy will be the favourites at the two-week tournament and will get the opportunity to experience south african conditions 12 months before the 2010 world cup finals. the eight-team confederations cup, which starts on sunday, serves as a test event for next year. the field is made up of the champions of the six continental confederations plus the last world cup winners and the 2010 host nation. a 6-0 win over azerbaijan in a friendly on tuesday marked a record-breaking 32 consecutive matches without defeat for spain, who are top of the world rankings. they will now seek to extend that run in the confederations cup. "it is a great chance to have all the players together in unusual conditions and as european champions we have a reputation to defend," said spain coach vicente del bosque in an interview this week. "none of my players have played in africa before and we go to a country where it is cool, a change from the hot summer of spain. it will be a good test of character." spain meet new zealand in their first group a game on sunday, preceded by the opening game between south africa and asian champions iraq. more time the 2010 hosts are desperate for a morale-boosting set of performances, having slumped drastically in form over the last years. "i need more time with this team," south africa's brazil-born coach joel santana said after a warm-up win over poland at the weekend. "but i'm happy with their concentration; we have now begun to show progress." brazil and italy are both in group b, with egypt and the united states having the potential to play a spoiling role. brazil, who won the 2005 confederations cup in germany, will make the exhausting cross-continental trip three days before their opening game against egypt on monday because of their world cup qualifier against paraguay on wednesday. italy, in contrast, will have been in south africa for seven days, and played two warm-up matches, by the time they start against the americans on monday. "we will use the next 20 days to work hard and to also hopefully win the tournament," italy coach marcello lippi said this week. cup credibility officials have been at pains in recent weeks to sell the confederations cup as a credible, stand-alone event, though their stance is at odds with fifa's decision to turn the tournament into a world cup test event. slow ticket sales present a potential embarrassment to the 2010 hosts, who have sought help from south african companies to block-buy seats and pass them on to employees or customers. "it doesn't have the importance of other tournaments but we are happy to participate," del bosque said. four of the 10 venues for next year's world cup are being used for the two-week tournament, which kicks off and concludes at ellis park in johannesburg. the others are in bloemfontein, pretoria and rustenburg, all of which recently completed renovations. a fifth venue in the coastal city of port elizabeth was originally scheduled for the confederations cup but was dropped 11 months ago when officials feared it would not be finished in time. the venue has, however, been completed and the new nelson mandela bay stadium will host a british and irish lions rugby tour match next week as its first event --- iran bans planned mousavi rally in tehran  tehran, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's interior ministry declared as illegal a rally which supporters of defeated moderate presidential candidate mirhossein mousavi plan to hold in tehran later on monday. unrest has rocked tehran and other cities since the interior ministry released results on saturday that showed hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad had defeated mousavi by a landslide in friday's presidential election. mousavi has appealed to the islamic republic's top legislative body to annul the result because of what he alleges were irregularities, a charge the interior ministry and ahmadinejad have dismissed. the election result has disconcerted western powers trying to induce the world's fifth-biggest oil exporter to curb its nuclear program. us president barack obama had urged iran's leadership "to unclench its fist" for a new start in ties. on sunday, mousavi's supporters handed out leaflets calling for a rally in downtown tehran on monday afternoon. the protests over the last two days are the sharpest show of discontent against the islamic republic's leadership for years. "the interior ministry issued a statement and said no permission had been issued for a rally ... the holding of such a gathering would be illegal," state radio said. "some seditious elements had planned to hold a rally and by fabrication said they had permission from the interior ministry. any disrupter of public security would be dealt with according to the law," it said. state television said ahmadinejad was due to fly to russia later on monday to attend a summit meeting, a day after holding a triumphant rally attended by a cheering crowd of tens of thousands of people. pro-mousavi demonstrators threw stones at police at tehran university on sunday and also clashed with ahmadinejad supporters on a main street in the city that was littered with broken glass and fires. in the north of the capital, a stronghold of mousavi backers, riot police patrolled after midnight. rubbish burned in the street, some cars had their windows broken, and police blocked access to roads. mousavi's appeal supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has called on iranians to support ahmadinejad and state media quoted him as saying the unprecedented high election turnout was "a divine wonder." in a statement on his website, mousavi said he had asked iran's legislative guardian council to cancel the vote result. "i urge you, iranian nation, to continue your nationwide protests in a peaceful and legal way," he said. after dusk on sunday some mousavi supporters took to rooftops across tehran calling out "allah akbar" (god is greatest), an echo of tactics by protesters in the 1979 islamic revolution. ahmadinejad appeared at his rally amid a sea of red, white and green iranian flags waved by supporters thronging tehran's vali-e asr square, some perched on rooftops or cars. "some ... say the vote is disrupted, there has been a fraud. where are the irregularities in the election?" ahmadinejad said in a speech that the crowd punctuated with roars of approval. "some people want democracy only for their own sake. some want elections, freedom, a sound election. they recognize it only as long as the result favors them," he said. us vice president joe biden cast doubt on the election result but said washington was reserving its position for now. "it sure looks like the way they're suppressing speech, the way they're suppressing crowds, the way in which people are being treated, that there's some real doubt," he told nbc's "meet the press" when asked if ahmadinejad had won the vote. germany, one of iran's biggest trading partners and a negotiator in the west's nuclear talks with tehran, said it had summoned the iranian ambassador. "we are looking toward tehran with great concern at the moment. there are a lot of reports about electoral fraud," foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier told german zdf tv. an adviser to french president nicolas sarkozy said what was happening in iran was "clearly not good news for anyone, neither for the iranians nor for peace and stability in the world." iran's refusal to halt atomic work the west suspects is aimed at making bombs, a charge tehran denies, has sparked talk of possible us or israeli strikes on its nuclear sites --- zuma says s.africa confounds 2010 sceptics  cape town, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south african president jacob zuma, who once played soccer as an apartheid prisoner, on thursday started the one-year countdown to the 2010 world cup and said its success would confound sceptics. zuma who both played and refereed football at the notorious robben island prison where nelson mandela was incarcerated for two decades, kicked a ball into a crowd of construction workers at green point stadium to start the countdown to june 11, 2010. "when we got it, people said you can't do it," said zuma, referring to earlier widespread doubts that his country could pull off africa's first world cup. "we have been travelling up and down and arguing all the time to proof the point that we'll make. we've made it," said zuma, inaugurated as president only last month. the brand new cape town stadium, still under construction, is one of 10 world cup venues. officials say all of them will be finished by december and the widespread earlier fears that south africa would not be ready are now mostly muted. jerome valcke, secretary-general of football's governing body fifa, agreed south africa was on track to host a successful tournament, despite concerns over the impact of the global recession and the country's fearsome record for violent crime, one of the worst in the world. . he said it was now up to south africa, which will deploy 41,000 police officers to protect fans and players, to meet the needs of foreign visitors. "security is an issue all around the world. i think the world cup in south africa will be a great world cup," valcke told reporters at the stadium, as the sounds of a vuvuzela, a local trumpet used by football fans and one of the symbols of 2010, blasted out. organisers hope a boom in infrastructure spending for the competition and millions of dollars from foreign fans will help africa's biggest economy dig out of its first recession in 17 years --- pakistani minister hurt in attack near peshawar  peshawar, pakistan, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a minister in the government of pakistan's north west frontier province was wounded in an attack on thursday, hospital officials and police said. "he received bullets in his chest and we are operating on him to save him," mukhtar ahmed, a doctor at the main government hospital in the city of peshawar, told reuters. no one claimed responsibility for the attack on mian nisar gul, provincial minister for jails, that took place in the darra adam khel region near peshawar, where taliban militants have been active in recent y --- committee formed to publish, distribute free textbooks  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  a 13-member committee is being formed by the government to monitor the printing and distribution of free textbooks at the primary and secondary level. the committee, to be headed by prof md akhtaruzzaman of islamic history at the dhaka university, will consist of educationists, journalists and administrative officials, said an order of the education ministry on sunday. the committee will be able to co-opt more members if needed and will give financial and secretarial assistance to the national curriculum and textbook board (nctb). to resolve the crisis of textbooks, the nctb has started its work with the target to finish printing within october, said the ministry. prof akhtaruzzaman said on sunday that he was yet to be notified formally. "i will start work after getting an official letter and according to the committee's jurisdiction," he said. an earlier committee was formed, also led by prof akhtaruzzaman, to ensure the timely distribution of textbooks for lower secondary (class six to eight) and secondary (class nine to ten) students. the committee submitted a report to the education minister recommending distribution of textbooks free of cost. the government made the decision to do so a few days ago. on thursday, finance minister ama muhith proposed a tk 300 crore-allocation for the measure. he also said that new books would be given to all at primary level from next year. at present, new textbooks are given up to class three and students of class four and five are given both new and used books. others in the 13-member committee are prof syed manjurul islam of the english department of dhaka university; director of secondary and higher education directorate; director of the technical education directorate; prof aziz ahmed chowdhury, former director of primary education; a representative of the dhaka divisional commissioner (of deputy commissioner rank); additional director of rab (operations); chairman of inter-education coordination board sub-committee; chairman of madrasa board. they also include prof kofil uddin ahmed, former chairman of nctb, news editor of atn bangla manzurul ahsan bulbul; md abul kashem bhuiyan, deputy secretary for primary and mass education; md alefuddin, deputy secretary for education. b --- us congressional negotiators back war funding bill  washington, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us congressional negotiators on thursday approved a $106 billion compromise bill largely backing president barack obama's missions in afghanistan and iraq, but restricting his effort to quickly close the us prison at guantanamo bay, cuba. the package was in limbo for hours over whether to include a provision to prevent the release of photos by u.s. personnel depicting abuse of prisoners that obama and some lawmakers fear could provoke a backlash against u.s. troops. obama intervened personally to lobby against the amendment but vowed to keep the pictures under wraps. he told lawmakers in a letter that the provision would "unnecessarily complicate the essential objective of supporting the troops." on thursday, a federal appeals court in new york stayed an order that the defense department release the photographs, giving the obama administration time to argue its objections before the u.s. supreme court. the american civil liberties union has sued to make the photos public. lawmakers from the democratic-controlled senate and house of representatives voted along party lines to reject two attempts to reincorporate the provision into the bill. "all he (obama) has to do today is use an executive order to declare these photos classified material," said republican senator john mccain, who lost the 2008 presidential election to obama and has pushed to keep the photos from being released. the overall package includes $79.9 billion for u.s. forces in iraq where obama is trying to wind down the american presence and in afghanistan where the president is ramping up operations to fight remaining al qaeda militants. the bill has grown steadily as obama sought billions of dollars to also combat the h1n1 flu virus, which has now become a pandemic. he also asked for $108 billion in credit lines to shore up the international monetary fund as it helps developing countries weather the economic downturn. democrats and republicans have also larded up the bill with a few of their own items like military transport planes the pentagon did not request and money to spur car sales through vouchers for consumers to buy more fuel-efficient vehicles. the house and senate passed different versions of the bill. but negotiators have been hammering it out for weeks and democrats hope both chambers will approve it next week. the compromise has been a hard-fought battle for obama and his fellow democrats because of several issues, including the abuse photos as well as the imf funding that republicans have argued should be considered on its own merits. the imf provisions also endorse the lender's plan to sell some 400 tons (12.97 million ounces) of its gold. fight over guantanamo prisoners they also argued over closing the u.s. prison in cuba where terrorism suspects picked up after sept. 11 have been held. obama pledged to close the facility by january 2010 and had asked congress for $80 million to start that process. democrats rejected the money request but brokered a deal that would allow detainees into the united states for trial, although not permanent detention. the bill would also ban releasing any detainees into the country through sept. 30. the deal came as the administration this week transferred the first detainee to new york for trial and on thursday sent four others to bermuda, one to iraq and one to chad. republican representative jerry lewis questioned whether the administration was "racing to move these detainees before congress should enact anything into law." obama initially requested $83.4 billion for the wars, but it ballooned 27 percent with all the extras, including more flu money, aid for pakistan and the imf credit line, although budget analysts say that will require only a $5 billion backstop. house republicans, who were crucial to passing the first version of the war bill last month, have said they would oppose the new version because of the imf funding. that sent democrats scrambling to get votes from anti-war members of the party. but the anti-war democrats said they would not vote for the bill unless leaders removed the abuse photos provision. other provisions in the compromise bill include: - $2.7 billion for eight boeing co c-17 military transport aircraft and seven lockheed martin c-130 planes. - $1 billion for the "cash for clunkers" program, offering consumers vouchers up to $4,500 to trade in their less fuel-efficient cars for vehicles that get better mileage. negotiators rejected an attempt to strip out the money. - $1.4 billion in foreign aid to pakistan, including $700 million for its counterinsurgency effort against militant taliban forces coming across its border with afghanistan. - $7.7 billion for h1n1 flu, although $5.8 billion is contingent on future needs. --- 'smoke without fire' ends budget day!  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)a smoking tube light caused panic at parliament on thursday after its budget session ended. fire fighters rushed into the sangsad building as panicked people called the stand-by fire brigade to extinguish the 'fire'. "there was no fire," kazi emdadul haq, parliament's security chief, told bdnews24.com. "some people called the fire fighters saying there was a fire in the building." "but the fire fighters confirmed that it was only a faulty tube light inside the parliament library that caused smoke to spread through air conditioning outlets," said haq. he said speaker abdul hamid and other senior officials visited the library building to ensure all was safe. parliament officials said they saw smoke, accompanied by a burning smell, coming out of the air conditioning outlets at around 8.20pm, after the finance minister's budget speech was over. the fire brigade, always on stand-by within the parliament complex, eventually detected the origin of the smoke at the library --- mobile phone importers decry new tax  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)mobile phone importers have urged the government to rethink the proposal to raise taxes on cellphone sets in the new budget. the mobile phone importers association, at a press conference sunday, called the new 25 percent duty 'illogical and unrealistic'. "millions are using mobiles phones; their use is spreading with millions more considering them a necessity in their day-to-day life," mpia chief nsm faruque told reporters at the dhaka reporters' unity. "under the circumstances, the government's proposal of increasing import tax in the 2009-10 budget will dampen people's enthusiasm, discouraging the use of mobile phones." "in the interests of the people, we demand that the proposed new duty is reconsidered." the current duty is fixed at tk 300 for any mobile set irrespective of value. finance minister ama muhith's proposed budget sets a 25 percent rate on all sets. faisal alim, the association's general secretary, said the government would eventually lose revenue if the proposed duty and a 3.16 percent vat get implemented. revenue earnings netted in the sector through the current fiscal year stands at tk 225 crore and the new budget sees it rising to tk 550 crore, he said. "but it may actually slump to a mere tk 55 crore if the proposed new rates are enforced." said alim. bdn --- myanmar court delays suu kyi trial to june 26  yangon, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a court in army-ruled myanmar has delayed the widely-condemned trial of opposition leader aung san suu kyi for at least two weeks, her lawyer said on friday. the yangon district court set a new date of june 26 to hear the charges against suu kyi and american john yettaw, whose uninvited visit to her home last month was deemed a breach of her house arrest. lawyers for the nobel laureate asked for the adjournment to allow her only remaining defence witness, legal expert khin moe moe, to testify at the trial. "we requested the further adjournment since daw khin moe moe has to come here from southern shan state," nyan win told reporters. suu kyi faces up to five years in prison if found guilty of violating her house arrest after yettaw, 53, swam across inya lake and stayed for two nights at her yangon home. suu kyi says the trial is politically motivated to keep her in detention during next year's multi-party elections, which critics say will entrench nearly half a century of military rule in the former burma. even some of myanmar's neighbours are worried about the legitimacy of next year's polls. singapore senior minister goh chok tong told the generals that future investment in myanmar hinged on the progress of democratic change there. "i believe no singapore investor will come in a big way before this move towards democracy is seen to yield some results," goh was quoted as saying by the straits times newspaper on friday after his visit to myanmar. final arguments a conviction for the charismatic national league for democracy (nld) party leader is widely expected in a country where the courts often bend the law to suit the military. the supreme court on thursday accepted an appeal over a lower court's decision to bar two of her defence witnesses, senior nld member win tin and the party's detained vice-chairman, tin oo. the appeal will be heard on june 17. if the court overturns the bans and allows the pair to testify, final arguments and a verdict on suu kyi's case would be reached "much later", nyan win added. he said khin moe moe's testimony will highlight flaws in the prosecution's case and "explain that these charges are all politically motivated". suu kyi is charged under section 22 of an internal security law to protect the state from "subversive elements" but her lawyers say all charges should be dropped because the legislation is outdated. she has blamed lax security for allowing yettaw to swim to her home. she has spent more than 13 years in detention since her first period of house arrest in july 1989. her latest stint was lifted on may 26 and she is now being held in a guesthouse at yangon's infamous insein prison while the trial continues. yettaw told the court he was sent by god to protect suu kyi from "terrorists" seeking to kill her. he and two of suu kyi's housemaids are also charged under the same draconian security law. the trial has sparked outrage around the world. western governments and myanmar's regional neighbours have urged the junta to free suu kyi and other political prisoners and allow them to take part in next year's p --- pakistan steels for army assault on waziristan  islamabad, mon jun 15, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan braced for militant reprisals on monday as the army conducted softening-up operations ahead of an assault on the stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud, one of al qaeda's main allies. military experts see the showdown in remote south waziristan as a possible waterloo for al qaeda and its allies as the government has demonstrated a fighting spirit hitherto missing in pakistan. "we continue to fight until the last taliban, militant, enemy of pakistan is flushed out of pakistan," interior minister rehman malik told police in islamabad on monday. extra police roadblocks caused unusually long traffic tailbacks in the capital on monday morning as rehman feared more bomb attacks like those that killed eight people in dera ismail khan on sunday and nine in a peshawar hotel last week. us officials say they believe the pakistan army has started a big push into mehsud's mountainous redoubt, and on sunday awais ahmed ghani, governor of north west frontier province, confirmed an operation had been ordered. the united states heaved a sigh of relief when the army went on the offensive in late april to clear the swat valley and neighbouring districts northwest of the capital, islamabad. the start of a campaign against mehsud will doubly reassure western allies, who fear the nuclear-armed muslim state could plunge into chaos unless the taliban's creeping advances are stopped. waziristan has long been regarded as a militant sanctuary, and al qaeda leader osama bin laden passed through the area before disappearing after fleeing afghanistan in late 2001. military and intelligence officials told reuters the main operation has not yet started, though a countdown has begun. there have been a series of actions in recent days, including the bombing of a mehsud village on saturday, and an army assault on militant tribesmen in the nearby bannu district, while two forts in waziristan came under heavy attack from mehsud fighters. few places left to run the pakistan army, for all its firepower, faces a difficult campaign given the terrain, the fact that the taliban is embedded with a civilian population, and the desperation of their opponents. "it's going to be a tough battle initially because this going to be their final battle," retired brigadier asad munir, a former inter-services intelligence (isi) officer, told reuters. "it is for their survival so all of them are going to join together, the jihadis, sectarian groups, foreigners, al-qaeda. "if they take over south waziristan there'll be no place for al qaeda leaders to hide." missile attacks by u.s. drone aircraft have largely targeted north and south waziristan, the two most militant prone of pakistan seven semi-autonomous tribal lands bordering afghanistan. cia director leon panetta said last week he believed bin laden was still in pakistan, but u.s. officials have told journalists that some al qaeda fighters have begun moving to yemen and somalia as pakistan hds become too risky. while the main focus remains swat and waziristan, the military has also been hitting militant positions across the northwest, with airstrikes and helicopter gunship raids in bajaur and mohmand on sunday, and in orakzai last week. rahimullah yousafzai, a senior journalist based in peshawar, saw the risk of a protracted struggle against mehsud's taliban. "it won't be easy to win," said yousafzai. "it could take a long time as he has men everywhere like mohmand, bajaur, swat." the swat operation is in its last stages, but over 2 million people have fled the combat zone since fighting broke out in late april, and the prospect of more abandoning their homes in waziristan will add to worries over a humanitarian crisis. the united states and united nations are leading efforts to raise funds to help pakistan  --- no city move if villa made champions league, says barry  manchester, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - england midfielder gareth barry said he would not have left aston villa to join manchester city had martin o'neill's side secured champions league qualification. villa faded in the latter part of the season to finish sixth having been fourth in mid-march. barry, 28, joined premier league rivals city for 12 million pounds earlier this month after playing over 400 games for villa. "if villa had finished fourth i would have stayed. i would have enjoyed playing champions league football at villa park. it would have been wrong for me to have left had this been achieved," barry told reporters on thursday. "but once it was looking like villa weren't going to make it then my future became unclear. "the whole point of me coming here was to have a change, something that excites me. "playing in the champions league with manchester city is viable. the manager has convinced me we can reach these heights." barry also sought assurances from city's billionaire owners that coach mark hughes would remain in charge before putting pen to paper. "i have to look at the fact that i've joined a club that is not competing in european football," he added. "people will question this decision but i'm confident that in a couple of years time people will realise i made the right decision. "we all know about the ambition of this club and it excites me. they want to sign top international players and it just felt like the right thing to do to come here. "the first question i wanted to know about was the future of the manager. "i've seen it before. players join clubs then two months later the manager is gone and their future is uncertain. "that was the last thing i wanted to happen here. --- dozens hurt in blast at us conagra food plant  wilmington, north carolina jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an explosion caused parts of the roof to collapse on tuesday at a conagra foods inc processing plant in garner, north carolina, injuring more than 40 people and leaving one missing, police said. three people had serious burns while others suffered injuries ranging from broken bones to inhalation of smoke and toxic fumes, local news media reported. one worker was still unaccounted for but there were no reports of any deaths, said a garner police officer, sergeant joe binns. the 500,000-square-foot plant in garner, just south of the state capital of raleigh, employed 900 people in three shifts and made slim jim meat sticks, conagra said. the explosion started a fire and blew out a wall that fell onto a row of parked cars, crushing them. people at the scene reported a strong smell of ammonia fumes. the cause of the blast was unknown. television footage showed rescue workers in hazardous-materials suits at the plant, where the roof collapsed in several places. conagra, which acquired the plant in 1998, said it was cooperating with local authorities and sending a team of experts to the facility. "our first priority is the safety and health of our employees and the local community," the company said in a statement. the plant was inspected by the north carolina department of labor for workplace safety last july and no violations were found, said labor department spokeswoman dolores quesenb --- celtic's nakamura set to snub japan return  tokyo, june 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - celtic midfielder shunsuke nakamura is poised to snub his former japanese j-league club and join spain's espanyol, local media reported on sunday. nakamura's boyhood club yokohama f-marinos had hoped to re-sign the 30-year-old until the interest from spain, with espanyol now emerging as favourites to land the japan playmaker. "dragging out this saga makes a problem for the team," yokohama manager kokichi kimura told japan's sankei sports newspaper. "i believe (nakamura) will come." nakamura's agent, however, has flown to spain to meet officials of espanyol, who have reportedly made a formal offer to bring the biggest name in japanese soccer to their club. nakamura, who will leave celtic for free at the end of june when his contract expires, has also been linked with atletico madrid in both the japanese and spanish media. neither club are likely to meet nakamura's wages demands although both could probably outbid yokohama, while the player has made no secret of his desire to play in spain. nakamura left yokohama for italy's reggina in 2002 before signing for celtic three years later. he won three scottish premier league titles with celtic and picked up player of the year honours in 2006-07. yokohama shelved plans for a bold swoop for nakamura in january's transfer window with backers nissan motor co feeling the pinch from the global economic downturn --- nilmar winner keeps brazil top in south america  recife, brazil, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - striker nilmar capitalised on a piece of good fortune to earn brazil a 2-1 home win over paraguay on wednesday that keeps them top of the south american world cup qualifying table. nilmar, who had a quiet first half, chested a felipe melo pass towards kaka, only for the ball to come back to him off the unfortunate julio cesar caceres and the striker managed to scramble it home in the 50th minute. paraguay went ahead midway through the first half when salvador cabanas's free kick from outside the box took a deflection off elano and looped over brazil goalkeeper julio cesar. robinho then volleyed an exquisite equaliser four minutes before halftime from daniel alves's cross from the right. brazil have 27 points with four matches to go in the 10-team south american group. paraguay are third with 24 points, two behind second placed chile, with argentina fourth (22). the top four qualify automatically for next year's finals in south africa. "it was a match in which we had to be patient and persistent," brazil coach dunga told reporters. "we had to try playing on the wings, at speed, changing sides. everyone plays tight away from home and that makes it difficult to win. "we need three more points to be sure (of qualifying)," he added. end-to-end action brazil squandered several chances towards the end of an exciting second half, played in a torrential downpour in front of a crowd of 66,000 in the tropical city of recife. paraguay had less possession but posed more threat with their counter-attacks in the first half, midfielder carlos bonet shooting just over the bar and busy striker osvaldo martinez going close from a tight angle before cabanas opened the scoring. his goal was only the second conceded by brazil at home in the qualifiers and julio cesar had to be alert to prevent cabanas from scoring again in the 70th minute. paraguay keeper justo villar made a diving save from robinho close to the hour and the striker also went close with a free kick and shot over near the end after a good cross from kaka. kaka, who signed for real madrid earlier this week, was guilty of a miss himself when he put the ball wide from a metre out following a low cross by marauding central defender lucio. brazil visit arch-rivals argentina in their next match, with the home side clinging desperately to an automatic qualifying berth after a 2-0 loss away to ecuador --- portugal draw with estonia in tame friendly  tallinn, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a second-string portugal side drew 0-0 with estonia in a tame end-of-season friendly on wednesday. with cristiano ronaldo and simao out through injury, and deco and jose bosingwa out of the squad, coach carlos queiroz gave debuts to keeper beto, sweeper ze castro and winger eliseu. estonia dominated the second half and gave keeper beto the opportunity to shine with several eye-catching saves. portugal are locked in a tough battle to qualify for the world cup from group one. they are level on nine points with sweden, four behind second-placed hungary and seven behind leaders denmark. estonia are fifth in group five, on five points from six matches and with little chance of qualifying. wednesday's game marked the international retirement of estonia goalkeeper mart poom, who has 120 caps --- youth killed in capital  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  unknown attackers killed a youth at rampura in the capital on saturday, police said. the dead man was identified as 24 year-old garments worker 'biplob', sub-inspector of khilgaon police station, zakir hossain, told bdnews24.com. "he might have been killed in sequel to his helping rapid action battalion to arrest a local criminal a few days back," said the sub-inspector. biplob tried to save himself by hiding out in a house as his attackers chased him, witnesses said. police recovered his body from the house of purba ulan at around 1:30pm. police could not immediately confirm how he was killed, but said a fellow garments worker, 18 year-old 'raju', was injured as the gang fired shots to escape after killing biplob. raju was admitted to dhaka medical college hospital. b --- nokia launches new touch-screen music phone  helsinki, june 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - top cellphone maker nokia launched three new handsets on monday, including a new touch-screen model to follow its successful 5800 phone. nokia said its 5530 xpressmusic phone would start shipping in the third quarter and sell for 199 euros ($280) before subsidies and taxes. nokia's two other phones were its e72, an updated version of its top-selling e71 business phone, and the "3710 fold." the e72 will ship late in the third quarter for 350 euros before taxes and subsidies, while the 3710 will start selling in the fourth quarter for 140 euros. --- fiat to close chrysler deal on wed, shares rise  milan, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/ reuters) - italian car maker fiat spa was set to close its takeover of chrysler on wednesday in an ambitious move to survive and grow out of one of the worst crises in global auto industry. fiat shares traded 4.1 percent higher at 7.79 euros at 5:45 a.m. -- twice the rise in the dj stoxx auto sector -- following news that the us supreme court had removed the final obstacle to the deal on tuesday. in a victory for the us administration driving the restructuring of bankrupt chrysler, the supreme court on tuesday denied a request from indiana pension funds to delay the sale. "the news from the supreme court is very good for fiat," one milan trader told reuters. fiat is joined by a union-aligned trust and the us and canadian governments in taking over the best parts of chrysler. fiat is expected to close the deal by 1400 gmt, according to two sources familiar with the procedure. in a statement, fiat said it would occur shortly. drop in sales fiat began looking for partners to gain scale late last year when the crisis came into full force, leading to a dramatic drop in car sales. this year is expected to be no different. csm worldwide, an industry consultancy, has forecast a 20 percent drop in global production to 52 million vehicles this year as car makers lay off workers and leave their factories idle in the face of a sharp drop in demand. others in the industry do not feel the urgency to look for partners. renault-nissan chief executive carlos ghosn, for example, said on wednesday his group had no problem with scale. in fiat's case, csm worldwide said it saw a "tremendous amount of risk" in trying to revive chrysler. sg securities analyst eric-alain michelis said turning around chrysler would prove to be a tougher challenge for fiat than convincing u.s. authorities of its plans for the u.s. car maker. not only did it have to renew an aging product line but also persuade former customers to buy a chrysler again. fiat has sent a team of executives and engineers to detroit to work with chrysler to cut costs and prepare for the us launch of the cinquecento (500), fiat's popular small car. its stake in chrysler will start at 20 percent and should rise to 35 percent over time. germany fiat has had a harder time of persuading people in germany of its plans to create a world giant in car industry. it lost out to canadian car parts market magna international for general motors corp's opel unit although the government invited it to improve its bid. the sale is part of gm's restructuring, which saw it enter court protection on june after chrysler sought bankruptcy on april 30. erich merkle, an independent auto analyst based in grand rapids, michigan, said the court's decision on chrysler was good news for gm because it was using a similar quick-sale strategy to facilitate its way through bankru --- aid groups helping pakistan face `funding crisis'  london, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - relief groups in pakistan will be forced to stop or cut back supplies of aid to more than one million people fleeing a military offensive in the northern swat valley unless the worst funding crisis in a decade is resolved. nine aid agencies said on thursday they faced a shortfall in excess of 26 million pounds ($42 million), which was needed to provide food, medicine, tents and clothes to families uprooted by pakistan's campaign to expel taliban militants from swat. about 2.5 million people have been displaced by the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest, making pakistan's one of the biggest internal displacements in the world. oxfam, which is 4 million pounds short of cash, said it would have to close an operation to assist 360,000 people if more money did not arrive by july. "this is the worst funding crisis we've faced in over a decade for a major humanitarian emergency," jane cocking, oxfam's humanitarian director, said in a joint statement. the united nations has appealed for $543 million, but has received only $138 million -- a quarter of that so far. the joint statement said besides little money going into the un appeal, even less was being dispersed to aid groups on the ground from the appeal. the problem has prompted britain's department for international development to say it would give a direct cash injection to the relief agencies. aid workers are worried that the onset of monsoon rains in july will escalate the risk of malaria, water contamination and diarrhoea for internal refugees sheltering in camps and with host families. "the only reason we haven't faced a massive humanitarian meltdown is the generosity of families and communities of modest means who've looked after the vast majority of those who've fled the fighting," said carolyn miller, chief executive of merlin. "the world's richest nations need to dig much deeper into their pockets to help," she said in the statement. pakistan's military launched the offensive against the taliban last month after militants took advantage of a peace pact to take control of new areas in the region. there are expectations the army will now turn its attention to other taliban strongholds, like the south waziristan tribal region bordering afghanistan, once swat has been dealt with. the united nations' humanitarian chief john holmes said on tuesday that 500,000 more people could be displaced if pakistan's army mounted a big operation in waziristan --- 'too many of us', says dhaka pp  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  public prosecutors, in a meeting with the law minister on saturday, voiced concern over the appointment of "too many pps". dhaka pp abdul mannan said so many new prosecutors had been appointed by the government that there was not enough office space or desks. many shared the concern, he said at a daylong training for public prosecutors at the justice administration training centre. "there used to be 35 pps, general prosecutors, additional pps and assistant pps in dhaka. the number is now 98," he said. "eighteen new appointments were made in place of three additional pps," mannan said. law minister shafiq ahmed said all those appointments were made in line with recommendations from lawyers, "not for any other reason". "the government is moving to solve the problem of space. you will see a quick solution," shafiq added. 'alternative dispute resolution' he also called on public prosecutors to take up 'alternative dispute resolution' to tackle the massive backlog of cases jamming the courts. "many countries have alternative means of resolving cases out of court," said shafiq. "we should introduce such a system to free the courts through quick disposal of thousands of unresolved cases." these cases can be resolved quickly by two means, firstly by not seeking time extensions and adjournments, and secondly by settling them through alternative means, the minister said. alternative settlements can be applied in both criminal and civil cases, he added. public prosecutors must be up to date about the changing faces of crime and new law. training courses can be helpful for them, he said. "lawyers should play a better role in discharging their duties by presenting all the required information and arguments on behalf of the government," said the minister. bdnews --- fabregas sustains nasty head wound in baku  madrid, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - spain midfielder cesc fabregas suffered a nasty-looking head wound and had to be replaced at halftime during the european champions' friendly against azerbaijan in baku on tuesday. the arsenal captain was brought down in the penalty area just before the break and appeared to hit his head on the ground. he looked in some pain as the wound bled profusely and he was treated by medical staff. david villa scored the subsequent spot kick, his third goal of the match, to give spain a 3-0 halftime lead and sergio busquets replaced fabregas for the second half. spanish media reported the midfielder he would need stitches --- gen moeen departs, quietly  dhaka, jun 15 (bdnews24.com)general moeen u ahmed retired on monday after four years as army chief, spending his last days in office in relatively low-key fashion. "i've tried to give my best despite many limitations," said the general, widely perceived to be a key player in the '1/11 changeover' in 2007, which entailed a state of emergency and formation of a caretaker government that went on to rule for an unprecedented two years. "the people will judge my actions," moeen told tv reporters on sunday, after meeting president zillur rahman at bangabhaban. asked how he would pass his time in retirement, the man who was considered by many to be the 'de facto' ruler of the country for two years, said he wanted to keep working in some capacity. "i'm certain that i want to take up a job in the future, but i have yet to decide what kind of job," he said. moeen, who was repeatedly forced to deny the possibility of an army takeover during the two turbulent emergency years, also took leave of prime minister sheikh hasina on sunday. hasina's government took over in january from the so-called 'military-installed' caretakers, under whose regime her party won a landslide election and bangladesh saw what is considered to be the freest and fairest elections in the country's history. just weeks after coming to power hasina, with moeen, faced the horror of the bdr mutiny in which scores of army officers were killed. moeen u ahmed was appointed chief of army staff on june 15 2005. his term was extended by another year in 2008. he was previously attached to the diplomatic mission in pakistan as a defence attache, and prior to that served as a un peacekeeper in rwanda. he was the first army chief from among the officers commissioned in independent bangladesh and the first serving officer to become a four-star general after the liberation war. gen mubeen takes up the mantle monday lt gen md abdul mubeen, who succeeds gen moeen as army chief, will be promoted to general as he takes up his new office on monday. a former goc in jessore and chittagong, mubeen was made principal staff officer to the armed forces division on june 4 2008, in a major reshuffle of top army posts. he came to public notice with a well-received televised statement on the night of feb 27 to clarify that the government's announcement of a 'general amnesty' during the feb 25-26 bdr mutiny did not mean that those involved in killings, arson and other crimes would go unpunished. mubeen also served as the coordinator of the national coordination committee against corruption during the caretaker government's anti-graft drive against top politicians and businessmen. bdn --- peshawar hotel attack exposes pakistan's insecurity  peshawar, pakistan, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistani security cameras showed on wednesday barriers were lowered at the entrance to peshawar's top hotel just before militants drove into the forecourt and exploded a truck bomb, killing at least nine people, including two foreign un workers. taliban militants have stepped up attacks in cities since the army launched a campaign in april to clear taliban fighters from a stronghold in swat and other parts of northwest pakistan. more than 1,300 militants and 105 soldiers have been killed in swat, and the army's resolve has heartened us officials, who have been worried that nuclear-armed pakistan could slide into chaos unless the taliban's advance weren't stopped. on wednesday, the military said it launched an assault on militant positions in bannu, after up to 800 militants infiltrated the district adjoining the waziristan tribal region, another taliban and al qaeda stronghold. the closed circuit television camera footage of tuesday night's militant attack in peshawar, however, will inevitably reinforce concerns over insecurity in pakistan. un agencies issued statements saying five of their workers, including a serbian man and philippine woman and three pakistanis, were among those killed in the assault on the pearl continental, a hotel popular with vips and foreigners visiting the capital of north west frontier province. qazi jameel, a senior police official, told reuters that nine people had been killed in the attack, and rescuers were still looking for more victims. there were more than 60 wounded, including a british and a nigerian man, and a german woman. the toll excludes dead militants and people still missing. there were conflicting reports on the number killed and some officials have given a higher toll. security breach the blast blew out all the hotel windows, and caused several walls and a section of floors to collapse on the front side. less than a third of the 150 rooms were occupied the sons of a hotel cook, sat weeping in the ruined lobby, waiting for word on their father. "we are trying to call him on his mobile, the bell is ringing but no one is answering," said 25-year-old sheikh junaid. militants had shot their way into the forecourt and exploded a truck bomb in front of the lobby, evoking nightmarish memories of the attack on the marriott hotel in islamabad last september that killed 55 people. news channels ran closed circuit television camera footage from the checkpoint at the hotel entrance on the main road. it showed a cyclist speaking to a security guard, who then returned to his cabin. as the cyclist pedaled through, a retractable metal barrier in the driveway was lowered. a saloon car pulled into the entrance, briefly stopped and then sped over the lowered barrier toward the hotel, swiftly followed by a small truck. another guard ran for cover as shots appeared to be fired. bashir bilour, a senior provincial minister, suspected some employee had helped the attackers breach the hotel's security. "a vehicle cannot get in without some hotel employee's help, he said. "i think there will be definitely be some involvement." police said the bomb contained 500 kg (1,100 lb) of explosives, a similar size to the bomb at the marriott. the mangled truck used in the attack could be seen close to a crater 6 meters wide and one meter deep. there was no claim of responsibility, but the taliban have warned of retaliation because of the swat offensive, and there has been a recent trend in militant tactics toward using gunmen in support of a suicide bomber. fighting further west there are expectations the army will turn its attention to other taliban strongholds, like the south waziristan tribal region bordering afghanistan, once swat has been dealt with. a military statement said 23 militants and two soldiers had been killed in fighting in swat and nearby areas during the past 24 hours. it was unclear if the action in bannu, 150 km (94 miles) southwest of peshawar heralded the opening of a second front. "gunships, artillery and ground troops are being used in the operation," a military official said on condition of anonymity, but he had no details on militant casualties. pakistan's decision to opt for military action has been helped by a shift in public opinion. that support might ebb if the welfare of some 2.5 million people displaced by the conflict in the northwest is mishandled. the united nations is heavily involved in relief efforts and about a dozen un staff were staying at pearl contine --- rajib finishes sixth  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  grand master emamul hossain rajib finished sixth in the first scs international open grand masters chess tournament that concluded at bhubaneswar in orissa, india on sunday. ukrainian gm drozdovsjij yuri became champion with 8 points. rajib beat indian im dv prasad in the 10th and final round to finish sixth with 7.5 points while fm minhazuddin ahmed sagar became 33rd with seven points. he was followed by gm niaz murshed (51st) and debaraj chatterjee (65th) with both players securing 6.5 points each respectively. mahtabuddin ahmed, abdullah al safi, mohammad ali and fm syed mahfuzur rahman emon finished 91st, 93rd, 98th and 99th. fm taibur rahman, fm mohammad javed, fm mehdi hasan parag, mohammad hasan emam, m sharif hossain and sharmin sultana shirin finished beyond the 100 positions. iwm rani hamid with 4.5 points became 189th out of 367 players including 20 grand masters and 31 international masters. in the last round, sagar drew with gm temirbayev sarikbay of kazakistan, niaz beat fm sayantan das, amin beat debashish, robin drew with im dk sharma, malek lost against gm sergy tiviakov of netherlands and saif lost against im vishal shareen of india. bd --- taiwan president wants to be chairman of ruling party  taipei, wed jun 10,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - taiwan president ma ying-jeou said on wednesday he would seek to lead the island's ruling nationalist party (kmt), giving the china-friendly leader more direct control over the island's once icy relations with beijing. control of the party, which has been quietly meeting with communist officials since 2005, would allow ma more access to china, including the chance to visit in a non-government role. "on ties with china, there's already a kmt-communist forum, and that would be in his hands," said hsu yung-ming, a political science professor at soochow university in taipei. "this job would have a big impact on taiwan external relations." ma led the party until early 2007, when he stepped down as chairman over a corruption indictment involving his term as taipei mayor. he was later cleared. wu poh-hsiung, who succeed ma, has agreed to step down from the post. no one else is seeking the chairman's job, and no challenges are expected ahead of the july selection date. china has claimed sovereignty over self-ruled taiwan since 1949, when mao zedong's communists won the chinese civil war and chiang kai-shek's kmt fled to the island. beijing has vowed to bring taiwan under its rule, by force if necessary. ma was elected president last year on pledges to improve the island's economy by opening more trade channels with china, a global economic powerhouse. the two sides have signed landmark trade and transit deals during ma's term. ma, sometimes characterised as a loner in his own government, as party chairman would also gain more control over the kmt-controlled legislature, allowing speedier passage of b --- aid groups helping pakistan face "funding crisis"  london, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - relief groups in pakistan will be forced to stop or cut back supplies of aid to more than one million people fleeing a military offensive in the northern swat valley unless the worst funding crisis in a decade is resolved. nine aid agencies said on thursday they faced a shortfall in excess of 26 million pounds ($42 million), which was needed to provide food, medicine, tents and clothes to families uprooted by pakistan's campaign to expel taliban militants from swat. about 2.5 million people have been displaced by the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest, making pakistan's one of the biggest internal displacements in the world. oxfam, which is 4 million pounds short of cash, said it would have to close an operation to assist 360,000 people if more money did not arrive by july. "this is the worst funding crisis we've faced in over a decade for a major humanitarian emergency," jane cocking, oxfam's humanitarian director, said in a joint statement. the united nations has appealed for $543 million, but has received only $138 million -- a quarter of that so far. the joint statement said besides little money going into the u.n. appeal, even less was being dispersed to aid groups on the ground from the appeal. the problem has prompted britain's department for international development to say it would give a direct cash injection to the relief agencies. aid workers are worried that the onset of monsoon rains in july will escalate the risk of malaria, water contamination and diarrhoea for internal refugees sheltering in camps and with host families. "the only reason we haven't faced a massive humanitarian meltdown is the generosity of families and communities of modest means who've looked after the vast majority of those who've fled the fighting," said carolyn miller, chief executive of merlin. "the world's richest nations need to dig much deeper into their pockets to help," she said in the statement. pakistan's military launched the offensive against the taliban last month after militants took advantage of a peace pact to take control of new areas in the region. there are expectations the army will now turn its attention to other taliban strongholds, like the south waziristan tribal region bordering afghanistan, once swat has been dealt with. the united nations' humanitarian chief john holmes said on tuesday that 500,000 more people could be displaced if pakistan's army mounted a big operation in waziri --- bravo brings bravura to west indies  london, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - ian chappell, captain of australia during one of their golden eras, is now an incisive and highly respected television commentator. so those in charge of west indies cricket would do well to ponder his comments on their young all-rounder dwayne bravo during a vibrant half-century against sri lanka in the twenty20 world cup on wednesday. "he would be my choice as captain," chappell told viewers. "i really like his competitiveness. he can inspire his team. i think he would be an ideal captain." west indies badly missed bravo during the dispiriting month of may when they were well beaten by england in a two-test series. bravo had been given permission to play in the indian premier league (ipl) because it was felt a long-standing ankle injury would not stand up to the demands of five-day cricket. in an interview during a rare sunny day at the oval, bravo said the injury required careful monitoring. "i was getting some discomfort in my ankle for quite some time now. i got the surgery done to try and solve the problem. so far it's been good but there are still some problems in there. it's not as good as before and not as good as i would like it to be but i've continued my rehab programme," he said. "every day i have to do my strength and balancing work, i have to keep my stretching going, i have to ice three times a day." even the mere four overs required in twenty20 cricket proved problematic in the ipl. "it got a bit rough and tough in the ipl when we had back-to-back games, that took a toll on my ankle but so far it has been good, i have had a lot of between days to recover," bravo said. substantial role bravo, still only 25, made his debut against england at lord's in 2004. his figures in 31 test matches (1,833 runs at 32.73 with two centuries and 70 wickets at 39.58) are good but not outstanding. it is his attitude and enthusiasm, noted by chappell, which suggest he can fulfil his considerable potential and play a substantial role in west indies cricket. bravo bowls at a lively pace without being particularly quick. he is a batsman good enough to score a test century against australia, full of strokes and initiative. his quicksilver fielding can be dazzling. the ankle injury has affected his fielding, however. "in the field it has slowed me down a bit. it affects me in the speed and agility side of it. but as i continue playing it gets looser and i start to feel comfortable," he said. bravo is from trinidad, home of the great all-rounder learie constantine who, denied the chance to make a proper living at home, went to england and the lancashire leagues and later became the first black man to sit in the house of lords. through test cricket and his ipl contract with the mumbai indians, bravo does not have the money worries that drove constantine to england. he has a similar pride in west indies cricket and is anxious to see the smiles back on the faces of their fans. "we want to redeem ourselves and back our ability and do it for ourselves and our team and the fans back home. we have to put our hands up and give a good showing of ourselves," he said. "we are a better team in the shorter version of the game, i think that's very understandable. we are a very good team, we have a good balance, experience and youth and a lot of talent. "it's all about being there and doing the right things and making less mistakes and try and put the opposition under pressure. --- reward doubled to tk 100,000 to net last bdr fugitives  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  the reward money offered for information leading to capture of some 20 border guards, who are still missing following the bdr mutiny in february, has been doubled, a home ministry spokesperson said on sunday. "the information provider will be given tk 1 lakh and his identity will be kept secret," home ministry public relation officer md shahenur mia shahin told bdnews24.com. the home ministry originally announced a reward of tk 50,000 in april. thousands of border guards, guilty and innocent among them, fled the peelkhana headquarters in the chaos of the bloody feb 25-26 mutiny that left at least 70 people dead, mostly army officers deputed to the border force. many also fled battalions and camps after unrest in other parts of the country. while most ranks reported back to duty in the days that followed, authorities launched 'operation rebel hunt' to round up an estimated 1,000 who were still on the run in march. most of the fugitives were arrested or surrendered in the following weeks, while lists of those still missing have been sent to police stations, airports and border posts, say officials. bdr authorities published its latest list last month, of 25 bdr men that were still fugitive up to may 19. on may 24, however, the family of sepoy md abdus samad of 44 rifles battalion, one of those listed, said he was already in jail. a case was filed on feb 28, in the wake of the mutiny, accusing over a thousand bdr men. over 1,100 border guards have been arrested to date in connection with the case. bd --- twitter helps dell rake in sales  san francisco, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - social media company twitter is struggling to craft a profitable business model, but the web-based service has helped dell inc chalk up millions of dollars in sales. dell said on thursday it has raked in more than $3 million from twitter followers who clicked through its posts to its web sites to make purchases. the company, which has posted to twitter about two years and tracks the sales with proprietary software, made more than $1 million in the past 6 months. "we're going to watch it over time to make sure it's tracking at the right level," said lionel menchaca, dell's chief blogger. "it is trending upward and that's what we're going to be looking at overall." three million in sales over two years is a pittance for dell, ranked by idc as the world's second-largest pc maker in the first quarter of 2009. dell posted $12.3 billion of revenue in the first quarter of this year, alone. but the pc maker has become one of the first public examples of how companies might profit from twitter. twitter does not charge companies for such benefits, but does not rule out doing so in the future. "for now, monetization of this type of activity remains unknown," twitter spokeswoman jenna sampson said in a statement. "however, as the network grows, the company will be committing more resources toward profitability." gartner analyst allen weiner said such financial success could provide a model for twitter, itself, to make money. "certainly one of the ways twitter can begin to think of itself as a money-making operation is to facilitate a lot of these things, build it as part of the infrastructure. so if you're a company, you can pay twitter a certain amount of money and they can directly distribute coupons on your behalf, or clear transactions," weiner said. twitter is building add-on tools and services for businesses and professional users, co-founder biz stone told the reuters global technology summit last month. dell said it posts 6 to 10 times a week to its delloutlet account, which is where the majority of twitter-based sales have come from. stephanie nelson, who manages the account, said almost every post includes a coupon or a link to a sale, and about half of the posts are twitter-exclusive deals. the pc maker, which has about 600,000 followers, is one of the top 100 most-followed accounts on twitter, according to private trackers twittercounter and twitterholic. other non-media companies ranked in the top 100 include whole foods market inc, woot.com, zappos.com, jetblue airways corp. whole foods and jetblue said they have not tried to monetize their twitter presence. woot.com and zappos.com were not available for comment. twitter had approximately 17 million unique us-based visitors in april, and about 24 million worldwide, according to nielsen. its number of users has grown by more than a thousand percent over the last year. small companies are also finding financial success on twitter. new orleans-based naked pizza, which turns $1 million in sales annually, is "betting the farm" on its twitter presence according to co-founder jeff leach. the company, which created a twitter presence about two and a half months ago and has about 4,300 followers, last week said nearly 69 percent of sales generated during a one-day twitter advertising blitz came from customers drawn in from the site. leach posts 1 to 15 times a day and said his company sees a sustained 20 percent of sales dollars from its twitter presence. leach recently put up a billboard advertising the company's twitter presence and is planning mailings bearing the company's twitter contact information instead of a phone nu --- california nears financial "meltdown" as revenues tumble  san francisco thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - california's government risks a financial "meltdown" within 50 days in light of its weakening may revenues unless governor arnold schwarzenegger and lawmakers quickly plug a $24.3 billion budget gap, the state's controller said on wednesday. underscoring the severity of california's cash crisis, controller john chiang, who has previously warned the state's government risks running out of cash without a budget deal, said revenues in may fell by $1.14 billon, or 17.7 percent, from a year earlier. additionally, the revenues of the government of the most populous us state fell short of estimates in schwarzenegger's budget plan by $827 million, chiang said. he warned california's state government is speeding toward a financial disaster unless officials act urgently to balance its books. "without immediate solutions from the governor and legislature, we are less than 50 days away from a meltdown of state government," chiang said in a statement. california's revenues have been on a dramatic slide as a result of recession, rising unemployment and its lengthy housing downturn. the state's revenues from personal income taxes tumbled by 39.3 percent in may from a year earlier while revenues from corporate taxes fell by 52.1 percent and revenues from sales taxes sagged by 7.6 percent, according to a report released by chiang's office. "a truly balanced budget is the only responsible way out of the worst cash crisis since the great depression," chiang, a democrat, said. dueling budget concepts schwarzenegger, a republican, has proposed filling the state's budget gap with deep spending cuts, borrowing from local governments and by scrapping some state programs, including its welfare program. democrats who control the legislature are crafting a rival budget plan that includes spending cuts and saves programs schwarzenegger has proposed eliminating. they instead would use reserves estimated in his budget to narrow the budget gap. state senate president pro tem darrell steinberg said on tuesday he wants a budget agreement by the end of this month. california's new fiscal year begins on july 1. the sooner the state has a budget the better poised it will be to raise short-term cash to fund its operations by selling revenue anticipation notes, or rans, on the municipal debt market. if pressed, california could sell revenue anticipation warrants, or raws, an idea floated by schwarzenegger when he unveiled his budget plan last month. but he quickly shelved it amid opposition from lawmakers. "no one wants to issue raws for our cash-flow borrowing," said tom dresslar, a spokesman for state treasurer bill lockyer. "everyone would prefer to issue rans for the obvious reason: it costs less." lockyer, a democrat, supports a budget with the reserve schwarzenegger has proposed. that would increase confidence among investors that california has cash to pay the $7 billion to $9 billion in short-term debt notes that lockyer's office assumes the state will need to sell, dresslar  --- un seeks review of special forces in afghanistan  kabul, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united nations has asked nato defence ministers to review how special forces are deployed in afghanistan in a bid to reduce civilian casualties that risk jeopardising western efforts to stabilise the country. "i welcome additional troops coming in. but every effort must be made to avoid a situation where more troops and more fighting leads to more civilian casualties and behaviour that offends the population," un special representative kai eide told nato defence ministers in brussels by video link from kabul. with violence at its worst level since the taliban's ouster in 2001, washington is pouring thousands of extra troops into afghanistan this year. the reinforcements will more than double troop levels from 32,000 at the end of 2008 to 68,000 by the end of this year. other western troops battling the taliban-led insurgency number about 30,000. eide's remarks, made late on friday, were released by the un mission in afghanistan on saturday. "we cannot eliminate civilian casualties, but we cannot afford mistakes that lead to the loss of civilian lives, the alienation of the population and media headlines month after month that overshadow all the positive trends," he said. "the political costs are simply disproportionate to the military gains." civilian casualties have long been a source of anger for afghans, worsened last month by us air strikes in western afghanistan that the afghan government says killed 140 villagers, including 93 children. washington has acknowledged that not all procedures were followed in that bombing. it says it believes 20-35 civilians were among 80-95 people killed, most of them taliban fighters. those air strikes were called in by a unit of us marine special forces in support of afghan and us troops who had been ambushed. us special forces operate across afghanistan outside of nato's command structure but report to the same us general that commands nato troops. the new us and nato commander, general stanley mcchrystal, is a veteran special forces leader. "there is an urgent need to review the operations of special forces, including how such operations can be afghanised," eide said. he did not elaborate on what he meant by "afghanised". "that review should consider all options, and i repeat, all options, and their possible implications. furthermore we must all make sure that the training of military personnel is such that they are fully aware of afghan sensitivities. --- olympic day run on june 23  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  the bangladesh olympic association will hold this year's olympic day run on june 23, a time when other countries will also observe the anniversary of the modern olympic. a meeting with the representatives from all national federations was held with the convener of the run committee and boa vice-president mizanur rahman manu in the chair at the national sports council. to make the run successful, a seminar with the participation of the olympiad will be held at the nsc conference room on june 21 and the next day, a drawing competition for children will also be held at the same venue. besides, a blood donation programme will also be held on the day of the run. bd --- analysts call budget 'ambitious', slate money whitening offer  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)the proposed budget for fy 2009-10 is "ambitious" in terms of policies but "conservative" regarding macroeconomic projections, says the centre for policy dialogue (cpd). the growth target was not clear and could have been higher in the changed scenario under a democratic regime, the private research think-tank said at a post-budget press briefing on friday. cpd honorary fellow and former executive director dr debapriya bhattacharya said the targeted gdp growth of 5.5 percent was 'surprising' because 5.9 percent growth was achieved last year in spite of several setbacks. "from this perspective the budget is not ambitious; rather it is far from reality." he added indications were that the country was going backwards. finance minister ama muhith rolled out the budget for the coming fiscal year of tk 114,000 crore on thursday. cpd listed energising investment, consolidating agriculture, protecting the external sector, backing up public finance and reviving pubic administration as the challenges for the government. "the two defining goals for the government would be meeting high public expectation and addressing the global recession," bhattacharya said. the cpd review said that the budget reflected the pledges of the ruling awami league in the election manifesto. however, it added, promises of agriculture development and food security seemed to be lost in terms of allocation. "total allocation for agriculture and allied sectors is 14 percent lower than the revised budget of fy 2008-09," said the cpd fellow. the budget proposed to set aside tk 8,950 crore for the sector including crop, livestock, fisheries, forestry, land and water resources. meanwhile, the public expenditure share for industry and economic services also slumped about 13 percent. bhattacharya told the briefing that they had found outlooks for fiscal, monetary and investment scenario in a "traditional framework" compared with other issues in the budget. touching on revenue earning and expenditure, he said the most alarming thing was that almost 15 percent of public expenditure would go on interest payments. he also termed the public expenditure that is 16.6 percent of the gdp "low " compared with the neighbouring regions. "much more of it is needed in bangladesh where almost 40 percent people are poor." the annual development programme of tk 30,500 crore was also believed to be inadequate: "not very much...for the people of bangladesh it should have been more." cpd, however, said in its review that the projected adp was "overblown" in the context of implementation capacity. it pointed out that of the 886 projects in the adp of fy 2009-10, only 35 were new and the rest were carryovers. "without these [carryovers] the new adp would have been tk 26,895 crore," bhattacharya said.. on the budget deficit of tk 34,358 crore, he said that the government should focus more on foreign sources to close the deficit and lower the burden on internal sources. "or else, credit flow to private sector would shrink," added the cpd fellow. he criticised imposition of 25 percent tax on mobile phones saying it would boost the grey market once again like in the past. "everyone would start bringing a mobile phone in his pocket while coming back from abroad." speaking on the much-talked issue of investing undisclosed money, the former cpd executive director said the move would remove the distinction between legally earned undisclosed income and illegal earned undisclosed income. "the situation is if you are honest you pay 25 percent taxes. otherwise, the so-called black money holders get to pay only 10 percent." finance minister ama muhith proposed "acceptance of undisclosed money without any question during the period from july 1 to june 30 , 2012 provided that 10 percent tax is paid and it is invested in certain new industries such as physical infrastructure facilities and shares of companies listed on the stock exchange. the list of industries getting the benefit is too long and should have included few thrust sectors like infrastructure, agro-processing and capital market, according to the cpd. on the newest avenue of public private partnership (ppp), cpd stressed the need for legal framework. "we should also take into consideration whether foreign entities would join," bhattacharya said. the review said the key challenge was not that availability of resources, but institutional reforms to improve overall efficiency of development administration. ensuring proper utilisation of surplus national savings and foreign aid in pipeline, maintaining complementary macroeconomic framework, fiscal and monetary policies and enhancing ministries' capacity to utilise their allocated funds are also the key challenges facing the government, it added. --- homesick iranian women vote in afghanistan  herat, afghanistan, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - fatemeh heard the call of her homeland on election day and it moved her to tears. "i voted because i love iran. i've lived in afghanistan for 30 years but i don't like afghanistan," she told reuters in afghanistan's western herat city, 125 km east of iran, where dozens of iranian women clutching their passports voted in iran's presidential elections on friday. "i don't like my life here. i am here because i have four daughters, none of them are married yet." iran's election brought out a hidden community of women living in exile just across the border in afghanistan, a country that shares a form of their persian tongue -- dari -- as one of its official languages but has starkly different traditions. voters were welcomed by iranian music blaring from a brightly lit room in iran's consulate in herat, perhaps afghanistan's most prosperous and developed city, which largely owes its growth to close trading links with western neighbour iran. according to the consulate's director, mohammad reza nafar, at least 500 to 1,000 iranian-afghan families live in the area. most voters on friday were iranian women married to afghan men, many now living in poverty in a much poorer country. they spoke with longing of home, and of hard lives in a strange land. fatemeh's afghan husband has died, her children do not have iranian citizenship and she can barely afford to look after them. she prays to god her daughters will be married soon so that she can return to iran after decades away. "the other day one of my daughters even suggested she try and get into iran using smugglers. my life is very tough here, i miss iran," she said crying. black chadors, not blue burqas most of the women wore the traditional iranian-style chador -- a long black sheet held around their faces -- rather than the powder-blue burqa worn by many afghan women which covers the face with a screen and was mandatory under the taliban. one woman who did not want to give her name said she had lived in afghanistan for six years after meeting her afghan husband in iran. she was now living in poverty in a refugee camp on the outskirts of herat. "my husband is a heroin addict and i work as a clothes washer, i have four children," said the woman, originally from iran s northeastern town of sabzevar. "life is very difficult. we don t have electricity or running water. i would like to go back to iran but i have no money to go back." the main contender to iran's hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad is moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi. many afghans have welcomed his bid in the hope a thaw with the west could improve security in afghanistan. the iranian voters of herat were divided. shahrbanoo nourizadeh, one of the few wearing an afghan-style burqa, said she voted for ahmadinejad: "i think he's helped the country and it's progressed a lot." one of the few male voters, truck driver gholamhossein heidari, who drives through afghanistan from iran about once a week, said he had voted for mousavi "because he has a very bright and clear manifesto. i think he'll be good for the country". "elections are very important, for any country, it's one of the most important parts of the law," he  --- cars get pricier  dhaka, june 11(bdnews24.com)the proposed budget has revised upwards tariff structure including supplementary duty on import of luxury vehicles, making cars pricier. finance minister ama muhith made the proposal to discourage import of luxury vehicles and enhance revenue earning. but, supplementary duty on hybrid car as energy saver has been totally withdrawn. import duty cut on taxi cab and total exemption of tariff on import of ships have been proposed in the budget for fy 2009-10. importers will have to buy at least 10 taxi cabs with minimum 1500 cc engine at a time to ensure import of durable and quality taxi cabs. besides, existing seven percent tariff on import of sea-going ships, with capacity of 3000 tons or more, has been totally withdrawn --- ryder hospitalised as nz battle mounting casualty list  wellington, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - new zealand batsmen jesse ryder was admitted to a london hospital after missing his team's twenty20 world cup loss to south africa in england, new zealand cricket said in a statement on wednesday. ryder was forced to pull tuesday's game against south africa at lord's, because of a groin muscle injury and team officials later took him to hospital because of ongoing pain after the one-run loss. "jesse is continuing to suffer serious discomfort and has been admitted to hospital overnight for observation and further tests," team manager dave currie said in the statement. "we hope the picture will become clearer in the next 24 hours." currie said new zealand captain daniel vettori was receiving treatment to a shoulder injury that had forced him out of new zealand's two matches so far. ross taylor was being monitored after straining his hamstring while batting but left-arm paceman james franklin was expected to play in the next stage despite a knee problem --- mpos for non-govt schools set to resume  mustak ahmed bdnews24.com education correspondent dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  after a suspension of four years, inclusion in the monthly pay orders list is set to resume for teachers and staff of non-government schools, education officials said on saturday. "a 10-member committee has been formed after tk 112 crore was allocated in the proposed budget for the new mpos," senior information officer of the education ministry subodh chandra dhali told bdnews24.com. he said the committee will give recommendations after analysing existing policies for inclusion in the mpos list. the committee is supposed to give those recommendations within two weeks. it will also draft a policy for awarding mpos to new schools. an official of the education ministry said that several thousand applications were pending for mpo since 2005. according to the rules, for setting up a non-governmental educational institution, first permission to teach must be sought. then it the school is given recognition. finally mpos are awarded after scrutiny of syllabus, students and quality of teaching. members of the 10-member committee are chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on education rashed khan menon, standing committee member shah alam, joint secretary for education (colleges) main uddin khandakar, director of secondary and higher secondary education directorate prof noman ur rashid, director of technical education directorate prof nitai chandra sutradhar, chairman of the madrasa education board prof md yusuf, coordinator of the national teacher staff front and treasurer of national university prof kazi faruq ahmed, director of bangladesh bureau of educational information and statistics (banbeis) and teacher abdul awal siddiqi. b --- malawi father drops fight to stop madonna adoption  blantyre, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the father of a malawian girl being adopted by madonna says he has dropped his fight to get the child back and has urged the us pop star to take good care of her. malawi's supreme court on friday approved madonna's application to adopt a second child from the country, overturning a lower court ruling. james kambewa, the father of 4-year-old mercy james, originally said he opposed the adoption. however, he told reuters on saturday he had decided not to fight the case, asking only that mercy be brought up knowing he was her biological father. "let the child go ... my only plea to madonna is that she should seriously look after the child," he said in an interview. "i am asking madonna to make sure that, while the child is growing, she must be informed of me as her biological father ... she really must know that while she is far away the father is still alive." a malawian court ruled in april that madonna could not adopt mercy because she was not a resident of the southern african country. the supreme court overturned that decision, saying the child, who has been living in an orphanage, would have a better life with the singer. she never lived with kambewa. "when the child was born i was never told," he said. rights groups have accused the government of giving madonna special treatment by skirting laws preventing non-residents from adopting children. the government came under fire in 2006 after madonna, who has supported orphans in the country through her raising malawi charity, adopted 13-month-old david banda. officials at the charity said mercy was expected to be flown out of malawi this  --- airbus urges patience on crash, says a330 safe  paris, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - european planemaker airbus warned against speculating on the cause of an atlantic plane crash and defended the safety record of its a330 jetliner. an air france a300 crashed into the atlantic en route from brazil to paris on june 1, killing all 228 people on board in the world's worst aviation disaster in eight years. "it is safe to say that the aviation community is still (in) some shock," airbus chief executive tom enders told journalists. "and it certainly doesn't provide consolation to the families that if we look at the statistics of flying compared with 30 years ago, (they) ... show that the a330 is one of the safest aircraft that has ever gone into service." enders was speaking on saturday in a briefing ahead of the june 15-21 paris airshow alongside eads chief executive louis gallois. contents of the briefing were embargoed for sunday. the crash has cast a pall over the world's largest aviation event, adding to economic pressures that have forced airlines to cancel or defer plane orders amid travel fears over swine flu. gallois appealed for media calm over the cause of the crash. "please be patient," he said. "such an inquiry is long and we should not launch into ideas because it is an issue for families, colleagues and friends. they don't know if what they are reading in newspapers is true or not." enders said airbus personnel had been deployed on rescue ships searching the atlantic for bodies and wreckage and were ready to lend expertise on the jetliner if required. "we are supporting air france. and we are supporting investigating authorities to find out what exactly happened up there ... and we are hoping that the black boxes, the digital data recorder and the voice recorder will be found soon so that we can find out what happened there," enders said. "any speculation undermines the work that the authorities are doing." investigators have said the aircraft sent out automated warning messages to maintenance crews including one suggesting the speed readings were unreliable, prompting speculation that the wide-body aircraft's speed sensors may have been faulty. airbus last week denied a newspaper report it was thinking of grounding the worldwide fleet of almost 1,000 a330s as well as a340s, a larger sister model, to change speed sensors, and said the planes were safe to --- kenya charges 17 somalis with piracy  mombasa, kenya, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - kenyan prosecutors charged 17 somali men with piracy on thursday, a day after the us navy handed them over to authorities there. there are now 111 suspected pirates being held in kenya, and police say the influx is clogging jails and courts. local muslim leaders say kenya should not be used as a "dumping ground" and foreign navies should take charge of the people they arrest. prosecutors told a court in the port city of mombasa that the 17 men were arrested as they attacked the egyptian-flagged merchant ship mv amira. "the suspects are charged that on may 13, upon the high seas of the indian ocean, while armed with offensive weapons namely six ak 47 rifles, one pistol, one gps and one somali sword, they attacked a merchant ship ... (and) put the lives of the crew in danger," the prosecutor's charge sheet said. the suspects were not represented by a lawyer and denied the charge. police have said some of the suspected pirates could be transferred to nairobi to ease the pressure on mombasa's jails. "we do not know when these piracy cases will end but the high rate at which they are being arrested and handed over to us, transferring the cases to nairobi might be the only option remaining," said sebson wandera, a senior police officer. international navies trying to curb piracy off somalia are often reluctant to take suspects to their own countries because they either lack the jurisdiction to put them on trial there, or they fear the pirates may seek asylum. the european union, united states and some other countries have instead struck agreements with kenya to hand over suspects to face trial there. some pirates are being prosecuted in france and the netherlands. in kenya, 10 pirates are serving a seven-year jail term at a prison in voi, near mom --- pakistan's qadir says resigned over interference  karachi, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan's former chief selector, abdul qadir, said on friday he resigned because of high-level interference which undermined the team. qadir, who abruptly resigned last week while pakistan was in england for the icc world twenty20 tournament, also accused captain younis khan and shoaib malik of encouraging divisions within the team. "i resigned because i was not allowed to work indepedently. there was too much interference from the board chairman and by the team management. i cannot work in such conditions," qadir told a news conference at his home in lahore on friday. qadir, 53, a leg-spinner who appeared in 67 tests and 104 one-day internationals, said pakistan would struggle to compete because of interference that ignored the views of selectors. meanwhile, a senior official of the pakistan cricket board told reuters they had fined all-rounder abdul razzaq 500,000 rupees ($6,000) for playing in the unofficial indian cricket league (icl). razzaq, 29, who recently resigned from the icl, flew to england on friday to join the national team in the super eights stage of the twenty20 tournament, replacing injured pace bowler yasir arafat. he is the first of the players who played in the icl to be reinstated for international cricket --- personality determines job role: study  sydney, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - boss too mean? staff fond of slacking? that's the way the cookie crumbles, says a new study that found personality traits have a big influence on your job. the study, by researchers at the university of western sydney, australia, showed that in many cases, personality, rather than education or the occupation of a person's parents, played a bigger role in determining what job people ended up with. people in managerial roles tended to be more open to experience, more conscientious but less agreeable than others in different job roles. clerical workers were the most conscientious, but least open to change, while salespeople were the most extroverted and agreeable. office workers were among the least conscientious, but they had high levels of emotional stability. "personality traits are a combination of genes and upbringing, and they're relatively formed by the age of 12," said robert wells, one of the researchers who conducted the study as part of his phd thesis. "by the age of 30, the broad characteristics are stable. and the study indicates that personality traits generally seem to have some influence on occupational outcomes," he told reuters. "also, with regard to occupations, management tends to be more influenced by personality traits." the study was based on data from a wide ranging national survey, the household income and labor dynamics in australia, which involves almost 20,000 individuals. the survey looked at the prevalence of five characteristics - openness to experience, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and emotional stability - in different occupations. "this study can help policymakers, employees and employers alike," said wells. "the broad personality traits of the five-factor model have a significant, relatively strong, persistent and expected effect over occupational outcom --- japan considers own sanctions against north korea  tokyo, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - japan is expected to impose its own sanctions against north korea over its may 25 nuclear test, including suspending all trade, kyodo news agency reported on saturday. it said a cabinet decision was likely to be made as early as tuesday. the punitive measures were expected to have only a limited impact, but tokyo wished to demonstrate its strong opposition to the nuclear threat posed by the country, kyodo said. the un security council on friday unanimously approved wider sanctions against the reclusive communist state, which included a ban on all weapons exports from north korea, as well as most arms imports. japan's colonial rule over the korean peninsula in the early 20th century, under which many koreans suffered, have plagued ties between the countries. north korean agents' abduction of japanese decades ago also remains an emotional issue and a major obstacle to establishing diplomatic ties between the two nations --- warne takes aim at buchanan for helping english  sydney, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former australia leg spinner shane warne has taken a swipe at his old coach john buchanan's decision to work in england. buchanan recently accepted a job to coach some of england's best young players although he will not be directly helping england's senior players in the upcoming ashes series. warne was an outspoken critic of buchanan's methods in the past and could not resist taking another shot at his fellow australian for helping out the english. "i think that's a great move because that means we've got more of a chance," warne told reporters friday. "hopefully buck (buchanan) will be doing his stuff and he'll be working and doing all his things and hopefully overcomplicating things. "i reckon it gives our chances a big boost and makes our blokes more hungry." warne, who retired from international cricket after the last ashes series in australia but still plays in the lucrative indian premier league, said australia's early exit from the world twenty20 may turn out to be a blessing. "i wish we were still in it, it's a wonderful game to play, it's an important form of the game," he said. "(but) the positive is our guys can prepare for the ashes and just rely on those warm-up games and all the talking, focus and preparation will be on the ashes. --- dse, cse welcome capital market focus in budget  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)stock market leaders have praised the budget proposed for the next fiscal year, saying no other budget attached so much importance to the capital market. "the finance minister in his budget speech emphasised raising funds from the capital market rather than opting for syndication loans from commercial banks," dhaka stock exchange president rakibur rahman told a press briefing on sunday. he also lauded the government's move for an extended three-year amnesty to draw 'black money' into the capital market, start-up industries and physical infrastructure. "the decision is very encouraging...it would strengthen the capital market leading to a faster industrialisation of the country." on scathing criticism made by some economists and experts on the budget provision of the legalising undisclosed money, the dse chief said that the "specialists" missed the main point. "it is an conditional offer upon investment...its not like paying 7.5 percent tax and whitening money like the previous time," he said. rakibur urged undisclosed money holders to invest and "sleep peacefully". the chittagong stock exchange also welcomed the budget. cse president nasiruddin ahmed chowdhury said in a statement that the move to update the taxation system and forming of a national tax tribunal is "commendable". he suggested raising tax-free income limit for private service holders to tk 2 lakh to offset the effects of high commodity prices in the wake of pay hike of government employees beginning july 1, when the 2009-10 fiscal year starts. both the stock exchange leaders however, asked for a revision of the rate of turnover tax for stock brokers. finance minister ama muhith proposed the turnover tax at 0.025 percent from existing 0.015 percent. they also urged the government to cut the corporate tax rate for bank, insurance and financial institutions. --- generation y advised to wean selves off parents' cash  canberra, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - generation y-ers expecting parents to foot their bills could be in for a rude awakening since the economic crisis hit, according to a poll. a survey for australia's st george bank found almost two-thirds of generation y-ers -- people born from the mid 1980s to early 1990s -- are expecting their parents to help them out with their rent, their wedding and when buying a home. however, the poll found many parents were no longer in a position to fund their children, with 70 percent of "baby boomers," or people in their 50s and 60s, suffering financially as a result of the global financial crisis. "clearly, most parents want to help their grown-up children but circumstances have changed for many and it's understandable that parents are now having to focus on their own needs and financial health," said bank spokesman andrew moore. "as a result when it comes to paying for things like weddings, first home deposits, overseas travel and childcare, many gen ys must now stand on their own two feet ... the fall in parental financial support will no doubt be a significant blow to gen y who have grown accustomed to receiving parental help." the survey of 1,000 australians, conducted by galaxy research, found a growing disconnect between the expectations of generation y-ers, many of whom had a pampered youth, and what their parents can provide. the poll found that 65 percent of generation y-ers had no knowledge of their parents' financial situation, yet 44 percent expected their parents to pay for all or part of their wedding, 40 percent expected help buying a house and 34 percent expected financial support for their education. these expectations left more than 50 percent of parents feeling guilty when their children asked for help or support. four in five parents of adult children wished their children planned for their future better and spent less on non-essential items, saved more and become more financially independent. moore said the survey found that many generation y-ers just did not know how to budget or save. "one in four gen ys say they have never had to budget and/or save, and a further 35 percent have only done so for a short period when saving for a particular item or holiday," he said. "with the increasing pressure their parents are under with the gfc (global financial crisis), i strongly recommend that gen y take a more active role in managing their finances as they will be less able to turn to their parent for h --- g8 considers how to move out of crisis mode  lecce, italy, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world's rich nations have started to consider how they will unwind emergency steps to rescue their economies once recovery is certain, according to a draft statement from a meeting of group of eight finance ministers on saturday. the communique showed the group more positive about the economy than it has been since the credit crisis deepened last year, although there was no sign of a unified line on "stress tests" for banks -- one issue where north america has been pushing europe to act more. "there are increased signs of stabilization in our economies," said the draft, obtained by reuters on saturday before the release of an official communique later in the day. ministers, meeting in southern italy, discussed an "appropriate framework" under which stimulus policies would eventually be ended, and asked the international monetary fund to analyze possible strategies, the draft said. but it added that the group was fully committed to previous international agreements on aid for the world economy, and would provide more stimulus if needed as long as it did not threaten to drive up inflation or do lasting damage to state budgets. "while the economic outlook is improving, the situation remains uncertain," the draft said. "we must remain vigilant to ensure that consumer and investor confidence is fully restored and that growth is underpinned by stable financial markets and strong fundamentals." a surge in long-term government bond yields over the past several weeks shows markets fear huge sums of money poured into economies, through state spending and interest rate cuts, will ultimately fuel inflation and cripple government finances. exit strategies pressure has therefore been building in the g8 for talks on ways to wind down the stimulus as soon as it is no longer needed -- "exit strategies" that would prevent market interest rates from climbing high enough to threaten economic recovery. a g8 source, who declined to be named, told reuters late on friday that the imf report would probably be presented at the fund's october annual meeting in istanbul. the imf study could give governments some political cover when they eventually start making painful cuts in state spending to bring budget deficits under control, and when central banks begin to raise interest rates back up from near-zero levels. germany and canada on friday urged the g8 to hold its first talks on exit strategies. but other countries are less enthusiastic about discussing the subject and are less convinced that the worst of the economic slump is over. euro zone industrial production shrank by more than a fifth in april, new data showed on friday, raising risks that the second quarter will be weaker than expected. "we must not get wrapped up in the pick-up when we're still in the process of relaunching, stimulating and making sure the stimulus plans are working," french economy minister christine lagarde told a briefing late on friday night. "we cannot say that at the end of x months we will be at such a threshold and we should withdraw such and such a support." u.s. federal reserve chief ben bernanke has urged washington to start planning to restore fiscal balance. but treasury secretary timothy geithner has said that though he wants to "take stock" of recovery efforts, stimulus work is not yet finished. "the dominant focus of policy everywhere -- everywhere -- still is on trying to make sure we have a strong foundation for recovery," he told a news briefing earlier in the week. bank stress there were signs of continued disagreement among g8 nations in other areas. canadian finance minister jim flaherty called on europe to conduct more "stress tests" of its banks -- studies of their financial health -- and to reveal the results, at least on a system-wide basis. but europe's leading powers are divided on publishing results of their tests, which are run by different regulators using different methods, and there was no mention of stress tests in the draft g8 statement. french economy minister christine lagarde said on saturday that european nations would "explain nicely to the americans" that there would be no quick consensus on stress tests. the g8 ministers are due on saturday to release a set of principles and standards for the conduct of business globally, calling for more information and protection for investors, tighter regulation, and a stronger sense of commercial ethics. "the breadth and intensity of the prolonged downturn have revealed fundamental weaknesses of the global economic and financial systems," said a draft summary of the principles, known as the "lecce framework." the g8 groups the united states, germany, japan, britain, france, italy, canada and russia. --- acts flock to edinburgh fringe despite recession  edinburgh, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a record number of performers from around the world are flocking to the edinburgh fringe festival this year despite the global recession, and organizers are hoping audiences will match their enthusiasm. oddly, britain's dour and embattled prime minister gordon brown fails to make a noticeable appearance yet again in the satirical sketches that are a feature of the fringe. a number of britain's leading comedians and actors got their break in edinburgh, which also hosts britain's top annual comedy award. the fringe combines with the city's international book, art and jazz festivals and military tattoo to make up the world's biggest annual showcase of the arts. an estimated 18,901 performers, with shows from 60 countries including comedy, music, theater, musicals, opera and dance, will gather for the fringe, which runs from august 7 to 31. "we're really heartened that so many performers have decided to come to the festival fringe, more than ever before, and i think that's a really good sign that the fringe continues to be a strong attraction in these difficult economic times," the fringe society's chief executive kath mainland told reuters. "art market" she noted that as well as catering for mass audiences -- in good times the edinburgh festival attracts around 750,000 people through a six-week season -- the fringe is also a major global "art market" in which performers display their talents. "lots of people come here looking for works to buy or take and promote in other countries, and that's a big part of the appeal i think." comedy makes up 35 percent of the performances, with such notables as jo caulfield, jimmy carr, frank skinner, alistair mcgowan and american greg behrendt. theater and music offer a broad range of productions. this year's program also offers the first virtual show presented through an online video streaming format, soul photography by russian-born mikhail tank. mainland said the fringe had worked through the winter to correct a major computer problem that had hit ticket distribution last year, and she hoped for good times ahead. the edinburgh international festival of music, opera, dance and drama was founded in 1947 to brighten the dark days of austerity after world war two. the more anarchic fringe was born the same  --- us clears 10 big banks to repay bailout funds  washington, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - jpmorgan, goldman sachs and eight other top us banks won clearance on tuesday to repay $68 billion in taxpayer money given to them during the credit crisis, a step that may help them escape government curbs on executive pay. many banks had chafed at restrictions on pay that accompanied the capital injections. the u.s. treasury department's announcement that some will be permitted to repay funds from the troubled asset relief program, or tarp, begins to separate the stronger banks from weaker ones as the financial sector heals. treasury didn't name the banks, but all quickly stepped forward to say they were cleared to return money the government had pumped into them to try to ensure the banking system was well capitalized stock prices gained initially after the treasury announcement but later shed most of the gains on concern the money could be better used for lending to boost the economy rather than paying it back to treasury. "if they were more concerned about the public, they would keep the cash and start loaning out money," said carl birkelbach, chairman and chief executive of birkelbach investment securities in chicago. treasury secretary timothy geithner told reporters the repayments were an encouraging sign of financial repair but said the united states and other key group of eight economies had to stay focused on instituting measures to boost recovery. must keep lending earlier this year u.s. regulators put the 19 largest u.s. banks through "stress tests" to determine how much capital they might need to withstand a worsening recession. ten of those banks were told to raise more capital, and regulators waited for their plans to do so before approving any bailout repayments. as a condition of being allowed to repay, banks had to show they could raise money on their own from the private sector both by selling stock and by issuing debt without the help of federal deposit insurance corp guarantees. the federal reserve also had to agree that their capital levels were adequate to support continued lending. american express co, bank of new york mellon corp, bb&t corp, capital one financial corp, goldman sachs group inc, jpmorgan chase & co, morgan stanley, northern trust corp, state street corp and u.s. bancorp all said they had won approval to repay the bailout funds. in contrast, neither bank of america corp or citigroup inc, which each took $45 billion from the government, received a green light to pay back bailout money. the government is in the process of taking as much as a 34 percent equity stake in citigroup, while bank of america has indicated it would like to begin repayment later this year. treasury said banks repaying bailout funds also can repurchase warrants that the government holds in their firms "at fair market value," and many of the approved banks said they intended to do so. the warrants give the government the right to buy common stock at a predetermined price for up to 10 years and were intended to give taxpayers a chance to share in the profits of healthy banks. geithner said some of the warrants were now valued in "the several billion dollar range." on tuesday, the head of a u.s. financial bailout oversight panel, elizabeth warren, indicated she planned to ensure taxpayers were getting a fair deal. geithner, in congressional testimony, said lawmakers could take "some modest encouragement" from the fact that repayment of $68 billion raised the chances that treasury will not have to ask for more taxpayer money to get through the current crisis. after doling out an additional $30 billion for general motors corp, the treasury's unallocated financial rescue funds had dwindled to about $54 billion, assuming other programs get fully funded. many banks remain on government life support, leaving them still subject to restrictions not only on executive pay but also on dividend payments and share repurchases as well. treasury is expected to outline new rules on wednesday for compensation for top earners at firms still supported by taxpayer funds, sources have said. those rules will detail how restrictions congress has put in place will be applied. in addition, u.s. officials are eyeing ways to influence compensation practices across the entire financial industry. toxic asset fund in reserve u.s. banks are eager to escape treasury's influence, and geithner acknowledged on tuesday that some were reluctant to join in a program to unload toxic assets from their books by selling them off to public-private funds if it meant giving the government a say in their hiring and pay strategies. "in my judgment ... these funds still are an important part of the necessary framework of tools to help get our country through this crisis, and i believe it is important that we go ahead and put them in place, even if participation is somewhat more limited than we would have expected," he said. geithner heads for italy later this week to join fellow finance chiefs from the group of eight -- the united states, britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and russia -- and the wall street journal reported he will use the occasion to urge europe to "stress test" its own banks. at a briefing ahead of the june 12-13 meeting of g8 finance ministers, geithner refused to judge other countries' standards for stress-testing. the obama administration moved quickly to apply tests to measure how u.s. banks might fare if an economic downturn deepens, in contrast to europe's slower approach --- top judge in russia's volatile ingushetia shot dead  moscow, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - gunmen firing automatic weapons shot a top judge wednesday in russia's troubled republic of ingushetia as she was driven through town, russian news agencies said, the latest attack in the mainly muslim north caucasus. the deputy chairwoman of the supreme court of ingushetia, aza gazgireyeva died later in hospital after her car was attacked in ingushetia's largest town of nazran wednesday morning, the agencies reported. the gunmen opened fire on the car carrying gazgireyeva at 08.40 local time (0440 gmt), injuring bystanders before escaping in two cars, state-run itar-tass news agency quoted a local interior ministry official as saying. "aza gazgireyeva was a judge with 25 years experience ... the reason for her murder was her professional activities," supreme court chairman mikhail zadvornov was quoted by interfax news agency as saying. as security in ingushetia's neighboring republic of chechnya has improved, instability has worsened elsewhere in the region. violence by islamic insurgents against the authorities has increased in ingushetia and dagestan this year, where poverty and tough government crackdowns have provided a fertile recruiting ground for militants. in a spate of attacks, a sniper killed dagestan's interior minister last friday at a wedding celebration and gunmen shot dead two people tuesday -- hours after president dmitry medvedev had sought to rally officials there in their fight against islamic insurgents. medvedev described the assassination of the interior minister as a "cynical challenge to the authorities" and ordered officials to track down the killers. analysts say moscow's fragile control over the mainly muslim north caucasus region could be undermined as the sharp economic downturn hits an already poor area. --- obama envoy says palestinian statehood only option  ramallah, west bank, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us envoy george mitchell assured the palestinians on wednesday of washington's commitment to a state of their own, calling its establishment the only viable solution to their conflict with israel. mitchell, speaking after talks with palestinian president mahmoud abbas, urged both sides to meet their obligations under a 2003 peace "road map" that commits israel to halting settlement expansion and palestinians to reining in militants. us president barack obama had made it clear "the only viable resolution to this conflict is for the aspirations of both sides to be met through two states," mitchell said. his comments highlighted a rare rift in us-israeli relations. israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has not publicly endorsed palestinian statehood and has said construction will continue in existing settlements in the occupied west bank. reiterating remarks he made in talks with israeli leaders on tuesday, mitchell said in the west bank city of ramallah that washington was seeking "prompt resumption and early conclusion" of israeli-palestinian peace talks. "we are now engaged in serious discussions with israelis, palestinians and other regional partners to support this effort," he added, before continuing the latest leg of his mission on a tour taking him to jordan, lebanon, syria and egypt. speaking later after meeting israeli opposition leader tzipi livni, mitchell said washington sought "a comprehensive regional peace which not only involves israel and the palestinians, but syrians, the lebanese and all the surrounding countries." obama continued to press the issue on wednesday from washington. ahead of mitchell's scheduled visit to amman on thursday, obama called jordan's king abdullah to discuss his recent trip to riyadh and cairo, where he issued his call for a new us relationship with the muslim world. "the president reiterated his commitment to work hard to resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict through a two-state solution, as he underscored in his speech in cairo," the white house said in a statement on obama's call to abdullah. "they discussed ways of ensuring that all parties fulfill their obligations and responsibilities to ensure that negotiations toward a two-state solution have the best chance to succeed," the statement said. settlement freeze abbas, after his talks with mitchell, made no comment to reporters. the palestinian leader has said talks with israel will be useless unless netanyahu accepts a two-state solution and freezes settlements. palestinian negotiator saeb erekat said in a statement the united states had "made clear its intention to reinvigorate middle east peace talks, as well as its expectation that both parties implement their obligations under the road map." he said israel's failure to fulfill its obligations under existing agreements had undermined the credibility of the peace process. obama's emphasis on meeting obligations was "an important litmus test of fairness and balance," erekat said. an aide to abbas said the us position was "encouraging" but israel's position was "obscure and disappointing." netanyahu, who leads a conservative government that could face collapse if he halts settlement construction, is scheduled to set out his position in a speech on sunday. while mitchell visited the west bank, netanyahu's security cabinet met in jerusalem to discuss a possible easing of israel's blockade of the gaza strip, territory controlled by hamas islamists opposed to us peace efforts. an official statement said the forum examined "additional ways to make life easier for the palestinian population in gaza and at the same time safeguarding israeli security interests." but the statement gave no indication whether more goods would be allowed into the gaza strip through israeli border crossings as the united states and european countries have urged --- dinajpur fa start with a win in club cup finals  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  dinajpur football academy made a fine start in the finals of the bashundhara club cup football championship with an emphatic 3-1 win over fantos sports association of rangpur in a group d encounter at the shamsul huda stadium in jessore on saturday. shafiqul put dinajpur ahead in the 19th minute before apel cancelled the opponents' lead two minutes later that left the first half a 1-1 level. after resumption, illias struck twice in the 74th and 85th minutes to seal the victory for dinajpur in front of a 3000-strong crowd. away at cox's bazar, pubna brothers union came from behind to hold barguna abahani kc to a 2-2 draw in the group a opener at the cox's bazar stadium, which will also host the matches of group c. abahani took a comfortable 2-0 lead in the first half with nantu and shamim slamming one goal each in the 35th and 38th minute respectively. brothers union, however, bounced back in the second half with riad reducing the margin 2-1 in the 69th minute and three minutes later shagar levelled for brothers union. bd --- air france chief questions sensor role in crash  paris, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - air france is not yet convinced that faulty speed sensors were to blame for the loss of one of its planes over the atlantic, but it is replacing old sensors as a precaution, the airline's chief executive said on thursday. pierre-henri gourgeon told reporters that air france was in a state of shock over the disaster and said he expected to have more information about what went wrong within a week. an air france airbus 330 crashed into the sea on june 1 enroute from brazil to paris, killing all 228 aboard. air accident investigators have said the airbus registered inconsistent speed readings just before contact was lost, raising speculation that the pilots might inadvertently have flown at the wrong speed and precipitated the disaster. air france subsequently reported it noticed temporary loss of air speed data on previous airbus flights due to icing up of the sensors and said it was speeding up a pre-planned replacement program. "as circumstances would have it, the first replacements arrived practically on the eve of the accident, on the friday," gourgeon told a news briefing, adding, "i am not convinced that speed sensors were the cause of crash." the french air accident agency has said it is too early to pinpoint any possible cause for the crash, saying there were only two certainties -- that the plane had hit stormy weather before the crash and that the speed readings were incoherent. airbus denied a french newspaper report on wednesday that it was considering grounding its fleet of a330 and a340 planes in the wake of the disaster, saying they were safe to fly. air france said at the weekend it had noticed the icing problems on the speed sensors in may 2008 and had asked airbus for a solution to reduce or overcome the difficulty. gourgeon said these "incidents" had not been deemed catastrophic. airbus responded by reaffirming existing operating procedures, according to air france in a statement on saturday. air france said tests had later convinced it that probes developed for another model would be more efficient and that it had decided to go ahead and start fitting them from april 27 without waiting for further testing proposed by the planemaker. the speed sensors on the air france a330 were supplied by france's thales, which has produced two versions of the so-called pitot tube for airbus aircraft. the crashed plane had the earlier thales model and air france is swapping them out for the more recent m --- who declares first 21st century flu pandemic  geneva, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world health organization declared an influenza pandemic on thursday and advised governments to prepare for a long-term battle against an unstoppable new flu virus. the united nations agency raised its pandemic flu alert to phase 6 on a six-point scale, indicating the first influenza pandemic since 1968 is under way. "with today's announcement, who moves from an emergency to a longer-term response. based on past experience, this pandemic will be with us for some months, if not years, to come," who director-general dr. margaret chan said in a letter to staff, a copy of which was obtained by reuters. people aged 30-50, pregnant women or people suffering from chronic conditions such as asthma, diabetes or obesity are at highest risk, chan told a news conference. the virus has killed 109 people in mexico, where it was first detected in april before spreading to the rest of the world, prompting the mexican government to temporarily shut schools and businesses in an effort to slow its spread. countries from australia to chile to the united states are reporting that the new swine flu virus is "crowding out" seasonal flu, becoming the predominant influenza strain, she said. for now the virus was "pretty stable," but chan warned that it could still change into a more deadly form, perhaps mixing with the h5n1 bird flu virus circulating widely in poultry. "so it is incumbent on who and all members to stay vigilant and alert for the next year or two or even beyond," she said. mexican health minister jose angel cordova said on thursday the virus was under control in mexico but warned there could be a new spike in cases later this year. there is also a risk the swine flu could mix with its seasonal h1n1 cousin, which has developed resistance to the main antiviral flu drug tamiflu, made by roche ag and gilead sciences inc, dr. anne schuchat of the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention told a briefing. the united states has been operating on pandemic status for weeks, with hundreds of thousands of cases and at least 1,000 hospitalizations, schuchat said. guarding against 'rash' actions the virus disproportionately makes younger people sick. some 57 percent of u.s. cases were among people aged 5 to 24, and 41 percent of those hospitalized were in this younger age group. h1n1 is active in all 50 states and there are so many cases now that in some areas, patients with specific flu-like symptoms -- a fever above 104 degrees f (40 degrees c), cough or other respiratory symptoms -- are presumed to have the new virus. who reiterated its advice to its 193 member countries not to close borders or impose travel restrictions to halt the movement of people, goods and services, a call echoed by u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon. "we must guard against rash and discriminatory actions such as travel bans or trade restrictions," ban told a news conference at u.n. headquarters. the move to phase 6 reflects the fact that the disease, widely known as swine flu, is spreading geographically, but does not indicate how virulent it is. widespread transmission of the virus in australia, signaling that it is entrenched in another region besides north america, was one of the key triggers for moving to phase 6. "we are satisfied that this virus is spreading to a number of countries and it is not stoppable," chan said. "moving to pandemic phase 6 level does not imply we will see an increase in the number of deaths or very severe cases. quite on the contrary. many people are having mild disease, they recover without medicines in some cases and it is good news," she said. "although the pandemic appears to have moderate severity in comparatively well-off countries, it is prudent to anticipate a bleaker picture as the virus spreads to areas with limited resources, poor health care, and a high prevalence of underlying medical problems," she added. canadian health officials said they were concerned about reports of more severe symptoms in some aboriginal communities, but said it was too soon to say for sure. "to make conclusions based on a couple of communities that this is somehow a disease that is worse in a particular ethnic group. it's much too early to make any of those kinds of conclusions or presumptions," said dr. david butler-jones, canada's chief public health officer. vaccine development underway chan said who would start distributing a further donation of 5.65 million courses of tamiflu from roche. who recommended drugmakers stay on track to complete production of seasonal influenza vaccine for the northern hemisphere's next winter. each year, normal flu kills up to 500,000 people and infects millions. work on developing an h1n1 vaccine is already under way at leading companies, whose factories will be ready to switch to making a pandemic shot in around two weeks' time, when normal season flu vaccine production is complete. seasonal flu affects mainly the elderly and causes severe illness in millions, so a premature switch in vaccine production to cope with the new strain could put many people at risk. "so our recommendation is they need to finish the seasonal vaccine and then move over," chan said. chan said the geneva-based agency would work with regulatory authorities to help fast-track approval of new pandemic vaccines that are safe and effective so that they can be made available as soon as possible. in any case, the first doses would only be available in september, she added. a pandemic could cause enormous disruption to business as workers stay home because they are sick or to look after family members and authorities restrict gatherings of large numbers of people or movement of people or goods. world markets shrugged off the pandemic, as investors focused on possible global economic recovery. the strain has spread widely, with 28,774 infections confirmed in 74 countries to date, including 144 deaths, according to who's latest tally of laboratory-confirmed cases. the united states has said tests only turn up a fraction of the true number of c --- cautious capello taking nothing for granted  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - italian fabio capello refused to speculate on england's world cup chances following their 6-0 demolition of andorra on wednesday, despite the obvious improvement in the 16 months since his first match in charge. victory maintained england's perfect record in group six with seven wins from seven matches, meaning they only need three points from their last three qualifiers to ensure their place in next year's finals in south africa. it would need a monumental collapse of form for england not to reach the finals but still capello would not be drawn. "it is too far away," he said. "but tonight we were very strong. we created two chances to score before wayne rooney's first goal. always when you play against a team that isn't strong you have to win the ball back and we did this." rooney scored twice to take his international tally to 24 and become the first player since gary lineker in 1990-91 to score 10 competitive goals in a season for england. jermain defoe also scored twice with frank lampard and peter crouch scoring one each. the improvement over england's opening qualifier against andorra in barcelona last september was also evident. then, they failed to score until the second half in a 2-0 win but on wednesday they were 3-0 up by half-time. "we did not start so well against andorra and we suffered," he said. "we couldn't score in the first half but, step by step we have moved on and improved." skipper john terry praised david beckham after the 34-year-old made his 100th start for england and won his 112th cap. "some of his passes were so good, they were some of the best i have ever seen," said terry, who added that the team wanted to give the fans who battled through a tube strike something to celebrate. "i am delighted he is in the team and i am sure the fans who got here despite the tube strike loved it. --- ice loss could push sea levels above estimates - report  singapore, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - increasing loss of ice from antarctica and greenland could cause sea levels to exceed un estimates by 2100, an australian government-backed report says, with the extent of the rise still uncertain. the u.n. climate panel says seas could rise by 18-59 cm (7-24 inches) by 2100. it also raised the possibility of an additional 20 cm rise if polar ice sheets dumped ever greater amounts of ice into the ocean. that assessment was based on scientific knowledge up to 2005. "there is now emerging evidence that sea level rise by 2100 might exceed this," says the report released on friday that reviews the latest science and is meant to guide policy-makers. "although it is unlikely that total sea level rise by 2100 will be as high as 2 metres, the probable upper limit of a contribution from ice sheets remains uncertain," said the report by the antarctic climate and ecosystems cooperative research centre in hobart, tasmania. a rise of even one metre would force millions along bangladesh's low-lying coast to move inland and trigger mass migration in vietnam's mekong delta. major coastal cities around the globe would need taller sea defences or risk being swamped. "the ice that's being lost is antarctica is being lost not by surface melt. the continent is very cold. but it's being lost by increasing discharge from glaciers," ian allison, one of the report's authors, said in an online briefing on friday. "some of the large glaciers in west antarctica have sped up and they are pushing more ice out into the ocean," said allison, leader of the australian antarctic division's ice, ocean, atmosphere and climate programme. the same was also occurring in greenland, in addition to increased melting of ice near the coast. shrinking sea ice the report says sea levels were rising at the upper end of u.n. climate panel projections and that evidence suggested the greenland and antarctic icesheets were contributing more to present sea-level rise than was previously estimated. the total ice stored in ice sheets on both landmasses would raise sea levels by nearly 65 metres if it all melted. east antarctica, where most of the ice is locked up, remains stable for now, studies show. but in west antarctica, much of the ice sits on bedrock up to 2 km below sea level and was at great risk of collapse if warming seas eroded protective ice shelves. the ice would be susceptible to rapid decay if it thinned and progressively began to float away, the report said, which called for greater research to better estimate how much the loss of ice would raise sea levels. a study released last month showed that a meltdown of west antarctica's ice sheet would raise sea levels by 3.3 metres, half what was previously thought, but the impact would still be catastrophic, especially for u.s. coastal cities. the centre, in a separate report released on friday, also warned of the risks from shrinking sea ice at the poles. floating sea ice helps regulate the climate by reflecting large amounts of solar radiation and drives ocean circulation patterns. it is also crucial to seals, polar bears, penguins and as a refuge for tiny creatures called krill, a key component of the food chain. "in response to a warming climate, sea ice is forecast to reduce by 24 percent in extent and 34 percent in volume by 2100," said the study. the arctic has already suffered rapid loss in the extent of summer sea ice and some scientists estimate it could be ice-free as early as 2013. --- raw materials to be cheaper  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the finance minister has sought to make basic industrial raw materials cheaper, with proposals to reduce duty rate from seven percent to five percent. "i propose to reduce ... in order to make our local industries more competitive both in local and international market," he said in his budget speech. "however, other slabs of 3 percent, 12 percent and 25 percent would remain unchanged." in 2008-09, import duty structure comprised 3 percent on capital machinery and parts, seven percent on basic industrial raw materials, 12 percent on intermediate raw materials and 25 percent on finished products. bd --- abbas tries to fix palestinian side of peace puzzle  ramallah, west bank, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - president mahmoud abbas chairs talks in jordan on thursday with factions of fatah, seeking agreement to hold the first congress in 20 years of the fractured, weakened movement dominating palestinian politics. fatah needs to restore unity to overturn its shock 2006 election defeat by islamist rival hamas, and to ensure abbas is firmly in the driver's seat for peace talks with israel, which us president barack obama wants to resume without delay. "the meeting of the central committee that will take place in amman will take the final steps in preparation for the sixth fatah congress," said fatah west bank spokesman fahmi al-zarir. a senior aide to abbas told reuters the meeting stood a good chance of setting a final date and venue for the congress, last held in 1989 but never yet convened on palestinian territory. the aim is to strengthen abbas by restoring and rejuvenating fatah, instituting reforms to bolster its democratic credentials and heal rifts in the ranks between the exiled establishment and home-based veterans of the resistance movement. secular fatah is internally divided on issues of militancy, democratization, and the conduct of talks with israel. local and younger leaders want the "old guard" to grant them more say. "the differences within fatah could lead to division and fragmentation of the movement. what's happening is a recipe for the collapse of fatah," said reformist qaddoura fares. once all-powerful under the late yasser arafat, fatah began to show cracks after his death, running rival slates in the 2006 election and thereby helping its opponent hamas to a victory that led on to open division and armed hostility. a year later fatah was forced out of the gaza strip by the islamists and holds sway only in the occupied west bank. months of talks in cairo to reconcile the two divergent wings of the palestinian cause have so far made little progress. "arafat had contributed to weakening fatah but he was the glue that held the movement together. now everyone sees himself as leader," commented political analyst hani masri. strengthening abbas's hand abbas, 74, wants a "modern, united and tamed fatah" -- as opposed to the militant hamas -- to prove he can deliver peace as head of the palestinian authority. but his fatah movement must restore credibility with palestinians disaffected by its corruption and cronyism, and the meager results of past peace talks with israel. the hamas islamists, with a reputation for austerity, spurn talks in favor of armed resistance against israel and now represent abbas's most serious challenge. a strengthened abbas could win greater u.s. and european support in pressing israel's right-leaning government to endorse the internationally backed "two-state solution" to the conflict. abbas wants the movement's 1,550 members to grant wider representation to the younger generation. congress would chose a new central committee and revolutionary council -- titles reflecting fatah's birth in the cold war geopolitics of 1965. the choice would pit reformists who grew up fighting, then talking to, israeli occupiers against veterans who stayed in the privileged diaspora until establishment of limited palestinian self-rule in mid 1990s. five previous fatah congresses were held in the diaspora and rarely presented leaders from the territories. some current central committee members oppose holding the sixth congress in the territories, in case new blood challenges their hold. "they want the same old faces," said fares. wherever the congress meets, rationalizing the future course of palestinian liberation policy will be the dominant topic. like hamas, fatah's existing charter does not recognize israel and endorses "armed struggle" to liberate palestinian territories. but the charter of the palestine liberation organization, of which fatah is the backbone and hamas is also a member, long ago nullified the call for israel's destruc --- jayasuriya strikes form to set up sri lanka win  nottingham, england, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - sanath jayasuriya thrashed 81 from 47 balls to set up sri lanka's 15-run win over west indies on wednesday in the teams' final group match of the twenty20 world cup. both teams had already qualified for the second round. west indies, chasing sri lanka's 192 for five at trent bridge, managed 177 for five in reply with dwayne bravo top-scoring with 51. they were left needing 28 from the last over. jayasuriya, 40 this month, added 124 from 78 deliveries with opening partner tillekeratne dilshan, who scored an equally rapid 74 from 47 balls -- his second consecutive fifty after his 53 against australia. jayasuriya plundered ten fours and three sixes. west indies fought back through medium-pacer lendl simmons, who claimed the first four wickets for 19 runs from three overs. he was denied the chance to become the first man to take five wickets in a t20 international when jerome taylor bowled the 20th over. west indies captain chris gayle was rested because of a sore right knee, sustained in the match against australia on saturday. sri lanka meet pakistan at lord's on friday in the super eight (1230gmt). west indies play india in the later match (1630) --- who on verge of declaring flu pandemic  by stephanie nebehay geneva, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world health organization is on the verge of declaring the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years, but wants to ensure countries are well prepared to prevent a panic, its top flu expert said on tuesday. keiji fukuda, acting who assistant director-general, voiced concern at the recent sustained spread of the new h1n1 strain -- including more than 1,000 cases in australia -- following major outbreaks in north america, where it emerged in april. confirmed community spread in a second region beyond north america would trigger moving to phase 6 -- signifying a full-blown pandemic -- from the current phase 5 on the who's 6-level pandemic alert scale. "the situation has really evolved a lot over the past several days. we are getting really very close to knowing that we are in a pandemic situation, or i think, declaring that we are in a pandemic situation," fukuda told a teleconference. fukuda said a move to phase 6 would reflect the geographic spread of the new disease. "it does not mean that the severity of the situation has increased or that people are getting seriously sick at higher numbers or higher rates than they are right now," he said. a decision to declare a pandemic involved more than simply making an announcement, he said. the united nations agency had to ensure that countries were able to deal with the new situation and also handle any public reaction. "one of the critical issues is that we do not want people to 'over-panic' if they hear that we are in a pandemic situation. that they understand, for example, that the current assessment of the situation is that this is a moderate level," fukuda said. the who and its 193 member states are working hard to prepare for a pandemic, for instance developing vaccines and building up supplies of anti-viral drugs, he said. the disease, which has infected over 26,500 people in 73 countries, with 140 deaths, has been most severe in mexico, which has reported the highest number of fatalities, more than 100. these include infections in otherwise healthy young people. pressure on hospitals a very real danger after declaring a pandemic was that hospitals could be overwhelmed by people seeking help when they did not really need it, while other patients requiring emergency treatment risked being neglected, according to fukuda. "in earlier pandemics, in earlier outbreaks, we have often seen that people who are in the category of being worried but who are not particularly sick, have overrun hospitals," he said. since the new flu strain first appeared, many people have stopped eating pork, pigs have been culled in some countries, trade bans on meat imposed, travelers quarantined, and some countries have discussed closing borders. "these are the kinds of potential adverse effects that you can have if you go out without making sure people understand the situation as well as possible," fukuda said. combining human, avian and swine viruses, the new strain has been dubbed 'swine flu', although scientists say this is misleading and stress there is no risk from eating pig meat. the world is better prepared but also more vulnerable to the adverse effects of a flu pandemic since the last one occurred in 1968, due to the speed and volume of international travel. an h3n2 virus caused an estimated 1-4 million deaths at the time, and became known as hong kong flu. but fukuda said the who would not name the new disease after a country or animal to avoid misleading stigmas. he voiced concern that canadian inuits had suffered disproportionately in the current outbreak, often needing hospitalization. it was not clear if this was due to higher levels of underlying chronic disease, genetics or poverty. "inuit populations were very severely hit in some of the earlier pandemics. this is why these reports raise such concerns to us," he s --- gunman kills guard at us holocaust museum  washington, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an elderly gunman linked to an anti-jewish website killed a security guard at the us holocaust memorial museum in washington on wednesday and was wounded when guards returned fire, officials said. the guard, stephen tyrone jones, died at a local hospital after being shot with a rifle, officials said. the museum said it would be closed on thursday in his honor. "there are no words to express our grief and shock over these events," the museum said in a statement. the gunman was in critical condition after the incident, authorities said. a federal law enforcement official said investigators had identified james w. von brunn, 88, as the potential suspect and linked him to a website that expresses anti-government and anti-jewish sentiments. us president barack obama said he was "shocked and saddened" by the shooting. "this outrageous act reminds us that we must remain vigilant against anti-semitism and prejudice in all its forms," obama said, adding that his thoughts and prayers were with the family of the "courageous security guard who stood watch at this place of solemn remembrance." washington mayor adrian fenty said the shooting was an isolated incident. "in these days and times you never know when someone is going to grab a gun and use it in an inappropriate way as was done today." stephanie geraghty, 28, who had been visiting the museum, said the shooter appeared to be a white male carrying a silver gun. "i heard the first shot, it sounded like something had been dropped from the upper stories down," she told reuters. "the next two came really fast -- bam bam. at that point, everyone took off, chaos, running." the museum, a memorial to the 6 million jews killed by nazis in the holocaust, is near the national mall where many of washington's monuments are located. "we are horrified by what happened in washington today. it is especially shocking that this attack took place at a museum designed to prevent violence and remind us of the dangers of hatred and bigotry," senator frank lautenberg said in a statement --- ronaldo fee is excessive, says uefa's platini  brussels, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - uefa president michel platini described real madrid's world record bid for manchester united's cristiano ronaldo as "excessive" at a time when the world is in the midst of a financial crisis. "it is very puzzling at a time when football faces some of its worst ever financial challenges," platini said in a statement to reuters. "these transfers are a serious challenge to the idea of fairplay and the concept of financial balance in our competitions," he added. the head of european soccer's governing body was referring to madrid's 80 million-pound ($131.2 million) bid for portugal winger ronaldo and their recent signing of brazil midfielder kaka for about 68 million euros ($95.42 million). the chairman of the french league, frederic thiriez, was also critical of the fees, saying: "those amounts are neither understandable nor justifiable. those excesses will lead the sport to the wall i ask for a european financial regulator". french clubs often complain they are not on a level playing field with teams in other countries due to the french league's strict financial rules, which forbid huge amounts of debt. stricter rules in november, eu sports ministers mulled the possibility of a pan-european financial regulator for sport but decided instead to press soccer's world ruling body fifa and uefa to introduce stricter financial rules for clubs and leagues. uefa officials said they hope to put forward new plans this year to tighten financial regulation such as cutting excessive club debt and imposing stricter rules on player transfers. uefa is also considering limiting the amount of revenue a club can spend on transfers and wages to about 45-55 percent of revenue from ticket sales, television rights and sponsorship. there would be no limit on money invested by club owners but this would have to be used for projects such as imfrastructure, including stadium development, and improving youth academies. uefa is also looking into the possibility of limiting the number of professional player contracts that can be issued in each country across europe to reduce the size of squads. platini's special advisor william gaillard told reuters earlier this year that reducing the number of professional contracts had "become more favourable" than the uefa president's proposal to directly cap wages and transfer fees --- colombia hand peru eighth sucessive defeat  medellin, colombia, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - colombia kept alive their chances of qualifying for the world cup on wednesday with a 1-0 win over peru, who slumped to their eighth successive defeat. argentine-based striker radamel falcao garcia scored the winner in the 25th minute, only the seventh goal in 14 qualifiers for his goal shy team. colombia have 17 points from 14 games in the 10-team south american group, enough to keep them in contention for fifth place with four games remaining. ecuador are fifth on 20 points after their 2-0 victory over argentina earlier on wednesday. the top four in the 10-team group qualify directly for south africa and the fifth plays off over two legs against the fourth team from the concacaf region that includes north and central america. peru stayed bottom with seven points. their run of defeats includes six world cup qualifiers and two friendlies. the goal came after peru goalkeeper leao butron missed taking a corner, and cristian zapata at the far post sent the ball back into the middle where falcao garcia scored from close range. peru gave the home crowd some frights with a brief bout of pressure early in the second half. colombia were far from convincing despite the win. peru should have equalised in injury-time but johan fano and hernan rengifo both failed to make contact with alexander sanchez's cross --- yokohama keen to wrap up nakamura deal  tokyo, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - yokohama f-marinos are still in talks with shunsuke nakamura concerning a deal to bring the celtic midfielder back to japan despite reported interest from spain. "contract talks are still continuing with the player," yokohama's chief media officer masanori hakamada told reuters on friday. "we hope for a speedy conclusion to the matter." nakamura, who is reportedly demanding $2.5 million a year, will leave scottish side celtic for free at the end of june when his contract expires. atletico madrid and espanyol are reportedly interested in signing the 30-year-old, who left yokohama for italy's reggina in 2002 before signing for celtic three years later. nakamura won three scottish premier league titles with celtic and picked up player of the year honours in 2006-07. the free-kick specialist has expressed his desire to finish his career in japan but has also made no secret of his admiration for spanish soccer. yokohama scrapped plans for a bold swoop for nakamura during january's transfer window with backers nissan motor co feeling the pinch from the global economic downturn --- car bomb rips through south iraq market, 28 killed  baghdad, wed jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a car bomb ripped through a crowded market in southern iraq on wednesday, killing at least 28 people and wounding 35, a local official said. the death toll from the explosion in al-bathaa, 30 km (20 miles) west of nassariya, could rise, said akram al-tamimi, media manager of the nassariya provincial council. the sectarian bloodshed and insurgency unleashed by the 2003 us-led invasion has fallen sharply across iraq since its peak in 2006/07, and the shi'ite muslim south has tended to be one of the quietest areas. but insurgents, including sunni islamist al qaeda, who view shia as heretics, continue to carry out devastating car and suicide bomb attacks. analysts say violence is likely to rise ahead of parliamentary elections next january. the withdrawal from iraqi city centers by us combat troops at the end of the month is another potential trigger point for an increase in attacks, iraqi officials say. the death toll from wednesday's car bomb attack varied enormously, depending on the source. police said 20 people died, and 30 were wounded. a security source in nassariya who did not want to be identified said 30 people were killed and 70 wounded. a hospital official said 13 bodies were taken to the local morgue and 75 wounded people were treated for wounds, but that other casualties might have been taken to another hosp --- what, apart from ronaldo, can 80 million pounds buy you?  june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - manchester united have accepted a world record bid of 80 million pounds ($131.7 million) from real madrid for portuguese winger cristiano ronaldo, the english champions said on thursday. united, who fended off the spanish club's interest in the world and european player of the year 12 months ago, have given the nine-times european champions the go-ahead to talk to him. but what else can buy for 80 million pounds? here are a few ideas: as many as 1.31 million apple iphones. you can buy 93 bugatti veyron cars, each costing 850,000 pounds ($1.4 million). it can fly a person to the international space station three times, with spare change of more than 15 million pounds. you can buy a big mac for the entire population of canada. it can buy around 138,000 ounces of gold. it could buy you 80 per cent of the 100 million pounds being sought for the purchase of english championship (second division) club newcastle united --- submarine to begin air france black box search  paris, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a french submarine with advanced sonar equipment is due to begin searching on wednesday for the flight recorders of the air france airliner which crashed into the atlantic ocean last week, the french military said. the nuclear-powered submarine emeraude was dispatched to the area last week to help recover the "black box" flight recorders, which may contain clues to explain the disaster and which are believed to lie deep on the atlantic ocean floor. "the emeraude will begin its patrol during the morning in an initial search zone of 36 km by 36," christophe prazuck, a spokesman for the french military said. he said the search zone would be changed daily. if the recorders are found, unmanned robot submarines on board the pourquoi pas, a french exploration and survey ship which has also been deployed to the area, could be used to bring them in. all 228 people aboard air france flight af 447 from rio de janeiro to paris are believed to have died when the airbus a330 aircraft crashed into the ocean after flying into stormy weather more than a week ago. brazilian military search teams have recovered 41 bodies from the sea and moved some of them to the archipelago of fernando de noronha off brazil's northeastern coast, which is being used as a base for the search operations. several pieces of wreckage have also been found but a full understanding of the accident will depend on the black box recorders being recovered. the doomed jet sent 24 automated messages in its final minutes on june 1, detailing a rapid series of systems failures. speed sensors that gauge how fast an aircraft is flying have become the focus of the investigation after some of the messages showed they provided inconsistent data to the pi --- rey free kick foils uruguay as venezuela grab 2-2 draw  puerto ordaz, venezuela, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - uruguay dropped out of the qualifying places in the south american world cup qualifying group after they were held to a 2-2 draw in venezuela on wednesday. diego forlan ended a spell of uruguayan pressure by putting the visitors 2-1 up in the 73rd minute, but venezuela kept their hopes of a first world cup appearance alive when jose manuel rey scored from a trademark free kick two minutes later. uruguay, on 18 points from 14 games, dropped to sixth in the 10-team group, two behind ecuador. venezuela have 17 points. the top four qualify directly for south africa while the fifth has a two-leg playoff against the fourth-placed team from concacaf. venezuela took an early lead when tomas rincon flicked a deft pass through a square uruguay defence and found giancarlo maldonado, who clipped the ball over juan castillo. however, the hosts failed to build on their lead and uruguay took control, luis suarez testing renny vega with a 20-metre shot and hitting the crossbar shortly afterwards with another effort from outside the area. uruguay deservedly equalised on the hour when cristian rodriguez fed suarez and his shot slipped through vega's arms. forlan struck from close range in the 73rd minute after sebastian abreu headed diego perez's cross into his path, but the lead last only two minutes as rey equalised with a free kick. forlan was twice deprived a late winner for the frustrated visitors --- 'compromise' forced money whitening offer: muhith  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)finance minister a m a muhith says reality forced the government to extend the provision for legalising black money to boost flagging investment. "ethics lost out to expediency on the question of giving the scope to whiten black money," he told reporters, with a tinge of disappointment, at a post-budget press briefing at the national economic council auditorium in the capital on friday. muhith has in the past been consistently opposed to 'money whitening' schemes, on ethical grounds, even speaking out against it in the lead up to the budget. "i personally believe the provision for whitening the black money is unethical," he said again on friday. "the prime minister is also against it, but politics is the highest art of compromise," he said, explaining the rationale for the move. "the cabinet discussed the issue before the budget. the opportunity has been offered on the basis of concerted opinion," said muhith. the finance minister had harsh words for the proceeds of corruption, but at the same time stated "expediency cannot be avoided." "black money is bred by corruption." "it is not so easy to curb corruption," the finance minister said. "but sometimes, an opportunity has to be given, so corruption can be avoided in the future." muhith said the opportunity was given to increase investment and employment. "considering all these things, the provision for legalising black money has been proposed," he said "but we will monitor the issue," he said, adding the provision would be totally withdrawn after 2012 if it was abused or did not lead to the expected rise in investment and employment. agriculture minister motia chowdhury, planning minister ak khandaker and information minister abul kalam azad and health minister ruhul haq also spoke. the finance minister placed the tk 1,14,000 crore maiden budget of the awami leauge-led grand alliance government on thursday in parliament amid a boycott by opposition parties over a seating arrangement row. muhith proposed "acceptance of undisclosed money without any question" during the period from july 1, 2009 to june 30, 2012 provided that a 10 percent tax is paid and it is invested in certain new industries and also in physical infrastructure facilities and shares of companies listed on stock exchange. the new industries include start-ups in textiles, garments, leather, drugs, it enabled services and ship building. the infrastructure facilities include ports and container facilities, fly-over and elevated roads, mono and underground railways, telecoms sector except mobile phone, water and waste treatment plants and solar energy plant. the finance minister in his budget speech said the facility was being given to boost investment, employment and to create more homeowners. "we would like to open up opportunities for employment for the common man and attain economic prosperity. there are many potential sectors of our economy where investments could carry forward our efforts for change," he said in his preamble to the proposed three-year amnesty. the industries in which black money can be utilised are: agro-processing industry (fruits processing, baby corn packeting, fruit juice producing and rubber industry), textiles spinning, textile machinery, garments, leather goods, toys, furniture, information technology enabled services (ites), drugs pharmaceuticals, light engineering, melamine, plastic products, ceramics, sanitary ware, steel, ms rod and ci sheet from iron ore, fertilizer, insecticide, pesticide, computer hardware, petrol chemicals ,agricultural machinery, boilers, basic raw materials of drugs, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, compressors, ship-building and diamond-cutting industry, shrimp-processing industry, milk-processing industry, accumulator and battery industry, tour operators, energy-saving bulb producing industry, jute goods-producing industry, recycling industry, herbal medicine, basic chemicals and dyes, cosmetics and toiletries, tourism industry, footwear, ms billet and any other category of industry as the government may by notification in the official gazette specify. physical infrastructure facility: river or sea-port, container terminals, internal container depot, container freight station, liquefied natural gas (lng) terminal and transmission line, compressed natural gas(cng) terminal and transmission line, gas pipe line, flyover, elevated road, mono-rail, underground rail, telecommunication other than mobile phone, large water treatment plant and supply through pipe line, waste treatment plant, solar energy plant and any other category of industry as the government may by notification in the official gazette specify. bdnews --- us supports dialogue between india and pakistan  new delhi, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the united states wants india and pakistan to resume peace talks, but would leave it to the two countries to decide the way forward, a us official said on thursday. "the scope and the character of that dialogue is something for indian and pakistani leaders to decide on how and when to approach that dialogue," undersecretary of state william burns told a news conference after talks with indian leaders. india has "paused" a slow-moving peace process with pakistan after 10 gunmen killed 166 people last november in mumbai. new delhi says the three-day attack was carried out by pakistan-based militants who must also have had the backing of some official pakistani agencies, which islamabad denies. "united states has always welcomed a dialogue between india and pakistan and welcomed better relations between those two countries," burns said, shortly after meeting indian prime minister manmohan singh. singh earlier this week said he was ready to meet pakistan "more than half-way" if pakistan cracked down on militants. islamabad has welcomed singh's comments. burns said the united states shared india's security concerns and wanted pakistan to act strongly against militant groups operating from there. "that's in everyone's interest and everyone's interest is committed to stability in this region," burns said. he said pakistan faced a serious challenge and was making progress in the campaign against the taliban in swat valley. closer ties burns, who is on a four-day trip to the capital and the financial hub of mumbai, said he was hopeful that india and the us would expand defense ties. india and the united states are discussing ways to resolve a row over a clause that allows us inspectors to monitor arms it sells to new delhi, a major obstacle for us companies bidding for a $10.4-billion fighter jet contract, that is the world's biggest current arms deals. india has not yet agreed to the us clause of "end-use monitoring" (eum) under which the united states reserves a right to make sure us arms sold abroad are used for their intended purpose and that the technology does not leak to third countries. "i think we are making good progress and i am very hopeful that we will be able to get past that issue and move ahead to expand defense cooperation between us," burns said. "so, yes i think we are closer." india's new ruling coalition, freed of pressure from its former communist allies, is also expected to move forward on a military logistics deal with the united states that would help us operations in the re --- taiwan president may meet china's hu: paper  beijing, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the expected election of taiwan president ma ying-jeou to head of the island's ruling nationalist party (kmt) could pave the way for him to meet chinese president hu jintao, a state newspaper said on thursday. the official china daily said that if ma took over the chairmanship of the kmt, he could then potentially meet hu in his capacity as head of the chinese communist party, rather than as head of state. "although ma has to visit beijing in his capacity as kmt chairman and talk to hu in his role as general secretary of the cpc central committee, the unprecedented meeting will signal 'great reconciliation'," the newspaper said. china has claimed sovereignty over self-ruled taiwan since 1949, when mao zedong's communists won the chinese civil war and chiang kai-shek's kmt fled to the island. beijing has vowed to bring taiwan under its rule, by force if necessary. but kmt spokesman lee chien-jung downplayed the chances of a ma-hu meeting. "that's taiwan media's speculation and analysis. if it were the right time both sides could consider it. if ma becomes party chairman, that would be the place to start. the difficulty for ma is that he would have a double identity, president and chairman." it is highly unlikely the two could meet as heads of state, as china claims taiwan as part of its territory and says the island's government is illegitimate and illegal. "he cannot visit china as president, but he can very well visit as kmt chair," said shane lee, political science professor at chang jung university in taiwan. "it's quite an obvious action of bringing the two sides together politically." the kmt decides on july 26 whether to appoint ma chairman. he would take the job on sept. 12. ma led the party until early 2007, when he stepped down as chairman over a corruption indictment involving his term as taipei mayor. he was later cleared. wu poh-hsiung, who succeeded ma, has agreed to step down from the post. no one else is seeking the chairman's job, and no challenges are expected ahead of the july selection date. wu has visited china and met with hu on a party-to-party basis, drawing only muted criticism on the island. ma was elected president last year on pledges to improve the island's economy by opening more trade channels with china, a global economic powerhouse. the two sides have signed landmark trade and transit deals during his  --- eu urges renewed nuclear dialogue after iran vote  prague, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the european union expressed concern about alleged irregularities in iran's presidential election on saturday, but said it hoped to resume dialogue with tehran over its disputed nuclear programme. in a statement, the czech eu presidency noted the re-election of mahmoud ahmadinejad for a second four-year term and also said it was concerned about violence that erupted after the official results were announced. iran's interior ministry said ahmadinejad won 62.6 percent of the vote, against 33.7 percent for reformist candidate mirhossein mousavi, who branded the results a "dangerous charade" that would "establish tyranny". "the presidency hopes that the outcome of the presidential elections will bring the opportunity to resume dialogue on the nuclear issue and clear up the iranian position in this regard," the eu presidency statement said. "the presidency expects the new government of the islamic republic of iran will take its responsibility towards the international community and respect its international obligations," it added. six major powers, including eu members britain, france and germany, have offered iran a package of economic and other incentives in exchange for which they want iran to stop enriching uranium, a process that can produce fuel for power plants or, potentially, a nuclear weapon. iran denies it aims to build a nuclear bomb, saying it only wants to master enrichment technology to generate electricity and rules out shelving the programme, saying that is its right as a member of the non-proliferation treaty --- india need to lift game before final two matches  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - defending champions india will need to improve all aspects of their game following their upset loss to west indies on friday if they are to get past the second round of the twenty20 world cup. india meet england at lord's on sunday evening (1630gmt) in their second super eight match before playing a confident south africa side at trent bridge in nottingham on tuesday (1630). yuvraj singh with 67 was their only top-order batsman to succeed in a total of 153 for seven and the bowlers were unable to subdue dwayne bravo (66 not out) and shivnarine chanderpaul (18 not out) in the latter stages of the innings. the fielding was sound but unspectacular apart from one splendid diving stop on the boundary by suresh raina. india captain mahendra singh dhoni said india had let bravo and west indies get away in the middle overs. "i think that was a crucial point," he told a news conference. "they were able to raise the rate to close to 10 runs an over. "we still have two more games and nothing much changes, so we are concentrating on the next game. in this format we have seen some of the best sides lose so we are not really worried too much. "we will need to perform in the next game but even in the last world cup, after every game we were in that situation. we played some of the toughest teams and went through to the final and won the cup, so it's not like we can't do it again. "you really have to be at your best because some of the teams play really good cricket and you don't want to take chances. --- budget doesn't meet al pledges: jama'at  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com) -the government's proposed budget is mostly unrealistic and not wholly consistent with the awami league's polls pledges, opposition party jama'at-e-islami said on saturday. the scope for 'whitening black money' will encourage corruption, discourage regular taxpayers and increase tax evasion, the party said in a statement after a meeting of its central working committee. jama'at, on the other hand, termed as positive the expansions of social safety net and raised allowances for widows, vulnerable women, aged and wounded freedom fighters. the minor opposition party pointed out that the small allocation for education and technology, compared to the previous budget, was not consistent with the awami league-led alliance's election pledge to 'digitalise' bangladesh. jama'at made a 14-point recommendations to put in parliament for consideration. the recommendations include forming a buffer fund to resolve problems of export-oriented industries, employment generation for the poor, enhancement of tax revenue earning and others. the party incorporated its observations and recommendations in a press statement after its meeting, chaired by jama'at chief matiur rahman nizami. b --- us checks civilian death reports in afghan strike  herat, afghanistan, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an insurgent commander targeted by a us air strike in western afghanistan may have survived, but the us military is checking reports that civilians were among the dead, the military said on thursday. the u.s. military said on wednesday mullah mustafa and 16 fighters had been killed in a targeted air strike in ghor province, describing the commander as a "warlord" reported to have links with both iran and the taliban. it said he had been struck after being observed meeting with armed men at a remote location where no civilians were present. but on thursday, the military issued an updated statement, which said "credible reports surfaced that mustafa survived the attack" and "unsubstantiated reports of civilian casualties emerged." it said it was checking the reports of civilian deaths. ghor's deputy governor, keramuddin rezazada, told reuters he was not able to confirm whether mustafa had been killed, and villagers had reported that 10 civilians as well as 12 armed men were killed in the strike. provincial authorities had sent a team to investigate, he said. civilian casualties from u.s. air strikes have become a major source of friction between washington and the afghan government and have caused widespread anger within afghanistan. the newly-named commander of u.s. and nato forces in afghanistan, general stanley mcchrystal, who is expected to take up his post this month, has said strikes that kill civilians are a threat to u.s. success in the war. the issue became especially fraught after an air strike last month in western farah province, in which the afghan government says 140 civilians died. the u.s. military has acknowledged procedures were not fully obeyed in those strikes, and says 20-35 civilians and a larger number of fighters were killed. u.s. forces in afghanistan rely on air strikes to protect u.s., nato and afghan troops under fire, and also in "intelligence-driven operations" aimed at killing suspected militant commanders. they say they have tightened procedures over the past year for both types of strikes, requiring additional checks to ensure that civilians are not hurt. --- shahabuddin gives second statement in 10-truck arms case  chittagong, june 14 (bdnews24.com)former national security intelligence director shahabuddin ahmed has given a second statement in the smuggling case in the sensational 10-truck arms haul. the ex-nsi official started giving his statement at 4:30pm at the chamber of chittagong metropolitan magistrate mahbubur rahman on saturday that continued though to 2:30am on sunday. bdnews24.com chittagong correspondent mintu chowdhury saw shahabuddin was taken back to the jail after his 10-hour statement was over. the court staff said his 31-page statement was recorded. the ex-nsi official admitted the involvement of other two arrested former directors general abdur rahim and rezzakul haider chowdhury and former deputy director liakat hossain in the arms smuggling. earlier on may 15 shahabuddin made his confessional statement in another case, the arms case filed over the same incident. investigation officer senior cid police superintendent moniruzzaman chowdhury told bdnews24.com sahabuddin made the statement under section 164 in the smuggling case after he was remanded for questioning for a third time. the court on june 3 ordered a four-day remand for the ex-nsi official and the cid official began the quizzing on june 9. on friday, the last day of the remand, he agreed to make confessional statement in the court. the two former dgs were arrested following shahabuddin's statement on may 15. the cid police arrested him on may 3 at a green road house in dhaka. b --- hartford gets $3.4 billion in tarp funds  new york, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hartford financial services group inc said on friday it will take $3.4 billion of federal bailout money and plans to sell as much as $750 million of common stock. the 199-year-old life and property insurer announced its plans eight days after saying chairman and chief executive ramani ayer will retire by the end of the year, following big losses tied to investments and variable annuity sales. citing a "continued uncertain economic environment," ayer said taking part in the troubled asset relief program and selling stock represent important steps in building financial strength and remaining well-capitalized over the long term. the hartford, connecticut-based company received preliminary approval to participate in tarp on may 14. tarp was originally intended to help banks, but eligibility has expanded to a handful of insurers. hartford said it plans to sell its common stock over time. it intends to use net proceeds for general corporate purposes, including possible debt buybacks. the $750 million is 17 percent of hartford's $4.46 billion market value as of thursday's close, reuters data show. goldman sachs & co is arranging the stock offering. last year, hartford lost $2.75 billion and obtained a $2.5 billion investment from german insurer allianz se. in connection with that agreement, the companies extended the term of allianz's warrants to buy hartford common stock to 10 years from seven years, a friday regulatory filing shows. they also reduced the size of a scheduled payment to allianz by hartford to $200 million from $300 million, and extended the due date for the payment to october 15, the filing shows. hartford shares closed thursday at $14.08 on the new york stock exchange. their 52-week high is $73.89, set last jun --- singapore group refuses comment on toon takeover report  singapore, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the investment group linked to a multi-million pound takeover of english club newcastle united has refused to comment on reports of the bid which would turn the championship (second division) side into a barcelona-style trust. "we are aware of the reports but we have no comment at the moment," john gaunt, chief executive officer, profitable group, told reuters when contacted at his singapore headquarters on wednesday. the investment group had contacted advisor seymour pierce to conduct the sale, britain's financial times reported. former liverpool and england midfielder steve mcmahon is on the board of profitable, which told the newcastle evening chronicle that it had spoken to newcastle united owner mike ashley and was putting together a plan. ashley officially put the recently relegated club up for sale on monday for 100 million pounds ($160.9 million) [id:nsp490692]. the evening chronicle reported on tuesday it had seen the company's initial blueprint for a takeover and that a source had outlined some of the groups plans including: turning the club into a trust where fans have a major say increasing st james' park capacity from 52,000 to 60,000 retaining alan shearer as manager profitable group is the company behind liverpool's visit to southeast asia next month. the premier league giants will play games in bangkok and singapore during the tour. according to its website, the profitable group "exists to increase the wealth of its clients, its employees and its owners, through the provision of strategically selected investment opportunities". the group says its aim is "to be internationally recognised as a premier provider of strategic global investment and a responsible and ethical builder of wealth". mcmahon is not the only soccer connection the investment group boasts. former celtic, liverpool and scotland striker kenny dalglish is listed as uk operations advisor while ex-birmingham city player paul masefield is listed as a sponsorship manager --- un moves to punish pyongyang as rival koreas meet  seoul, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - world powers moved closer to punishing north korea with new sanctions for its nuclear test while envoys from the reclusive communist state held talks with south koreans on thursday over a troubled joint factory park. the draft un security council resolution, written by the united states and endorsed by the four other permanent members plus japan and south korea, aims to hit the north's meager overseas finances and could be voted on by as early as friday. the resolution, if adopted, is likely to draw sharp rebuke from the prickly north, which threatened to test-fire an intercontinental ballistic missile unless the security council apologizes for punishing it for an april rocket launch widely seen as a disguised long-range missile test. "this sanctions regime, if passed by the security council, will bite, and bite in a meaningful way," us ambassador to the united nations, susan rice, told reporters. north korea has been subject to sanctions for years for military moves condemned by regional powers. analysts are not sure if new measures will have much impact on the impoverished state, whose economy has only grown weaker since leader kim jong-il took over in 1994. the un draft "condemns in the strongest terms" north korea's nuclear test last month and "demands that (it) not conduct any further nuclear test or any launch using ballistic missile technology." compromises the end result reflected compromises to satisfy chinese and russian objections. beijing and moscow had opposed language in earlier drafts requiring all countries to inspect north korean ships carrying suspicious cargo that might violate a partial un trade and arms embargo. in the latest version, the security council "calls upon" states to inspect suspicious sea, air and land cargoes, but does not demand it. arms sales are one of north korea's few sources of hard cash. beijing, the closest pyongyang can claim as a major ally, is reluctant to accept any new sanctions that would significantly undercut its economic ties to north korea or push an already weak economy into collapse. "china has faced immense pressure on this, so it's had to make concessions," said shi yinhong, an international security expert at china's renmin university, in explaining why beijing appears to be on board. "china feels in no position to push back hard, because north korea has offered it nothing to fall back on. nothing." north korea has angered the region and countries beyond in the past few weeks with missile launches, threats to attack the south and a nuclear test, prompting us and south korean forces to raise a military alert on the peninsula to one of its highest since the 1950-53 korean war. the north has been able to obtain a steady flow of foreign currency from the south korean companies using cheap north korean labor and land to make goods at the kaesong industrial enclave, located just within the communist state. the two koreas opened talks on the kaseong park that come about a month after the north said it was revoking all deals on wages, rent and fees paid there. analysts said this was likely a bargaining ploy to squeeze more money out of the south. south korea's defense minister said on wednesday he saw the north's military moves as being aimed at building internal support for kim's government as the 67-year-old leader prepares for succession in asia's only communist dynasty. the north has been preparing to test-launch as early as this month a long-range missile that could hit us territory and mid-range missile that can hit all of south korea and most of japan, south korean officials have  --- iran vote body to rule on election appeal in 10 days  tehran, mon jun 15, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's top legislative body, the guardian council, said on monday it had received two official complaints from defeated presidential candidates and would issue its ruling within 10 days. a spokesman for the council, which must formally approve the election results for the outcome to stand, said it had received appeals from moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi and former head of the revolutionary guards, mohsen rezaie. mousavi said on sunday he had urged the council to annul the result of friday's election, in which hardline incumbent mahmoud ahmadinejad won a resounding victory. "after reviewing their complaints, the result will be announced to the candidates," the isna news agency quoted guardian council spokesman abbasali kadkhodai as saying. "mousavi and rezaie appealed yesterday. after the official announcement (of the appeal) the guardian council has seven to 10 days to see if it was a healthy election or not," the kadkhodai said. ahmadinejad and the interior ministry have denied allegations of fraud in the election, and the supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has called on iranians to support ahmadin --- canada says troops did not abuse afghan prisoners  ottawa, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an official inquiry into allegations that canadian soldiers abused afghan detainees has cleared the troops of all wrongdoing, military officials said on tuesday. canada launched the probe in early 2007 after allegations that soldiers had abused three local men after taking them prisoner in april 2006 near the southern afghan city of kandahar. "the board (of inquiry), composed of three senior canadian forces members, concluded that detainees were handled professionally and humanely by cf members with whom they were in contact, and that cf members acted consistently beyond reproach," the defence department said in a statement. the inquiry found that during the incident, troops had been forced to subdue one suspect who "sustained a number of visible, non-life threatening injuries". he was bandaged and given a thorough medical examination. canada currently has around 2,700 soldiers on a combat mission in afghanistan that is due to end in 2011. allegations of prisoner abuse are a touchy subject in canada. in 1993, members of the airborne regiment, based in somalia as part of a peacekeeping mission, tortured and beat to death a 16-year-old boy. the regiment was disbanded and several members were subsequently convicted of crimes by courts-mar --- us sees new pakistan combat drive in waziristan  washington, jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan's military looks set to mount a significant combat drive in the taliban stronghold of waziristan, us officials said on friday and praised islamabad's resolve against islamic militants. several us defense officials told reporters in washington the pakistanis were completing an offensive begun in april in the swat valley and moving to a new phase aimed at isolating militants in other restive parts of northwestern pakistan. "the operations that appear to be underway now would be the largest operations that have been undertaken in waziristan," said one official, speaking on condition of anonymity. the official said the pentagon anticipated "fairly significant combat operations in south waziristan" aimed at the network run by pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud, one of the main sources of suicide bombers that have plagued pakistan. "we think that the initial phases of that operation have already begun," said the official, adding that "we are pleased that this level of force is being contemplated." pakistan's military went on the offensive in bannu district on tuesday after some 800 militants infiltrated from nearby waziristan, a hub of taliban and al qaeda activity. us officials, worried that the taliban could drive nuclear-armed pakistan into chaos, have welcomed the swat offensive and see the move into waziristan as a sign pakistan has become galvanized against the militants. taliban and al qaeda leaders "are under very significant pressure," said a senior us defense official. "the pakistani operations in swat have contributed to that pressure and prospective operations in south waziristan ... will add to that," he added. "even moving outside a given area -- meaning local area -- is quite challenging for them," the official said. child bombers for sale militants have launched a wave of bomb attacks in recent days in response to the army offensive in the swat region, prompting pakistani president asif ali zardari to vow on friday to fight against militancy "to the end". in the latest bomb attacks, a prominent anti-taliban cleric who had condemned suicide bombings was killed on friday in a suicide attack at his office in the city of lahore. the first us official warned that "isolated pockets of resistance still remain" in parts of the swat valley as the pakistani army worked to finish the two-month campaign and that islamabad needed to brace for more attacks. taking out mehsud, who can muster thousands of fighters, could help curb suicide attacks, said a third us defense official. "he has turned suicide bombing into a production output not unlike toyota outputs cars," said the official, who described the militant warlord leader as leading an extensive network of militant madrassa schools that sold or bartered child suicide bombers in pakistan's northwest frontier province. us officials have expressed satisfaction recently that the bomb attacks appear to be hardening pakistani public opinion against the militants and in support of military campaigns. but the us officials said that while pakistan is keen on fighting domestic enemies that threaten its stability, it was less eager to challenge the international militants that take haven on its soil and threaten afghanistan and beyond. "pakistan compartmentalizes the various militant threats" into groups that might be a useful hedge again rival india, those that might advance its interests in afghanistan and internal threat, said the third official. "we haven't seen anything to indicate a strategic reorientation in pakistan thinking at this time," he said --- spending spree will not overwhelm real with debt, perez  rome, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the purchase of kaka and massive bid for cristiano ronaldo will not lead to real madrid being burdened by a huge amount of debt, new president florentino perez was quoted as saying on friday. real were given permission to negotiate with ronaldo after manchester united accepted a world record bid of 80 million pounds ($131.2 million) for the portugal winger on thursday. three days earlier, brazil playmaker kaka joined the spanish giants from ac milan for a fee reported to be around 67 million euros. "on the contrary, we think can improve our accounts by aiming for three goals," construction magnate perez was quoted as saying by friday's la gazzetta dello sport when asked about the debt issue. "increasing ticket sales, increasing bank loans and increasing the club's economic value". he added that real generated enough revenue to cover these massive transfer market investments, with more expected to come, without him having to use his own funds. "(the money) is exclusively the club's, not mine," said perez, who twice broke the transfer record in taking "galacticos" zinedine zidane and figo to the bernabeu in his previous stint as president from 2000-06. "real madrid takes about 400 million (euros) a year, the fruit of three sources of incomea third from ticket sales, a third from television rights and a third from merchandising." ($1 = 0.605 pounds --- yemen says arrests saudi financer of al qaeda  dubai, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - yemen has arrested a man described as the lead financer of al qaeda in yemen and saudi arabia, a security source told reuters on sunday. the source said hassan hussein alwan, a saudi national, was seized two days ago in marib province in the east of yemen. militant activity in yemen, a revolt in the north and a secessionist movement in the south has unsettled western governments and saudi arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter. earlier on sunday, a government source said seven germans, a briton and a south korean were kidnapped in the saada area of north yemen, days after 24 doctors and nurses were held then released within a day. yemeni tribesmen in saada on friday released the medical workers they had abducted a day earlier, demanding the authorities release two prisoners, a government official said. tribesmen in saada, led by members of the houthi clan, began an intermittent rebellion against the government in 2004 to protest against what they say is economic and religious discrimina --- ronaldo heads for natural habitat in madrid  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - few players in world football fit the galactico description better than cristiano ronaldo and the portuguese box of tricks appears to be on the verge of re-locating to his natural habitat at real madrid. the spanish club's world record 80 million pounds ($131.2 million) bid for manchester united's goal machine is further proof that returning president florentino perez has set his heart on another dream team. with the 24-year-old ronaldo, a player who polarises opinion more than any other in world football, it appears to be a marriage made in heaven. for his staggering outlay, perez will get spectacular goals, dazzling footwork, showbiz and plenty of ego. while devout christian kaka, who joined real this week for around 70 million euros ($98.23 million), mixes his genius with a healthy dose of humility, ronaldo still gives the impression that he would be happiest playing on a pitch surrounded by mirrors. when ronaldo joined united in 2003 as a relatively unknown 18-year-old, he was handed the unenviable label of being the man to replace david beckham. while former england skipper beckham headed off to join the likes of raul, roberto carlos and zinedine zidane at real madrid, madeira-born ronaldo set about replacing beckham as english football's most high-profile player. initially he was lambasted for his obsession with fancy footwork and party-trick football which often promised much more than it actually delivered. his penchant for theatrical tumbles at the slightest challenge also gave fuel to the boo boys. his role in getting england's wayne rooney, his united team mate, sent off at the 2006 world cup finals cast him as a pantomime villain and tested the patience of the old trafford faithful. complete player but rather than run away to pastures new, ronaldo, helped by manager alex ferguson, developed into the complete player and it was not long before he began to devastate defences in england and across europe. a goal tally of 118 in just under 300 appearances is a stunning return for a player who does not even play as a striker. a natural winger, ronaldo has license to roam and can pop up in attack or in central midfield. his pace is electrifying and shooting prowess extraordinary, witness the stupendous goal he scored against porto in the champions league quarter-final this year. aerial ability is also another major strength. should ronaldo's move to real go through, and united appear resigned to losing him, it would leave big boots to fill. but with 80 million pounds in the bank united will probably need to make two big signings to replace what ronaldo provided. bayern munich's franck ribery would be an obvious target, although the frenchman is also on the radar of real madrid who seem intent on spending their way back to what they believe to be their rightful place at the top of world football. the premier league will be poorer for the loss of world and european footballer of the year. ronaldo is one of its biggest marketing tools, the perfect package of sporting brilliance, theatrics and personality. his sulking fits when things do not go his way and ability to pretend that his 40-metre free kick rockets are just run of the mill events make him a hard player to embrace 100 percent. even his fiercest critics, however, will miss the spectacular and unpredictable ability that marked ronaldo out as one of english football's greatest imports --- bodies of 2 housewives found in sirajganj  sirajganj, junew 13 (bdnews24.com)police recovered three bodies, including those of two housewives, in sirajganj on saturday. they said the body of shilpi khatoon, 32, daughter of solaiman hossain, was found in a field adjacent to a hindu-cemetery at mohishluti village in taras upazila at about 10am. md. moklesur rahman, taras police officer-in-charge, quoting locals, said shilpi went shopping at taras from her home on friday afternoon and was missing since. a case was lodged by her father with taras police. belkuchi police recovered the body of nasima khatoon, 20, wife of zainal pramanik, from her in-law's house at subarnasara mondolpara village at about 11am. md. hanif, officer-in-charge of belkuchi police station, said nasima might have committed suicide due to a family feud. however, the cause of her death could not be confirmed before post-mortem, he said. police recorded an unnatural death.  --- new york times does not plan to close boston globe  new york, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the new york times co said on tuesday that it does not plan to close the boston globe, a day after its largest union rejected a $10 million package of concessions aimed at cutting costs at the 137-year-old newspaper. but tensions are only deepening between the globe and the boston newspaper guild. the times has said it will cut more than a fifth of union members' pay to get the savings that it needs. the union on tuesday responded by petitioning the u.s. government to block that move. the times said it will cut the pay of members of the boston newspaper guild by 23 percent after they narrowly rejected the concessions. the concessions that they rejected included an 8.4 percent pay cut, elimination of some benefits, and furloughs. the union responded by filing a complaint about the pay cut with the national labor relations board (nlrb) on tuesday. "the boston newspaper guild will take all necessary steps to pursue and reach a fair and livable agreement," guild president dan totten said in a statement released on tuesday evening. "we will also oppose the company's drastic and extreme move ... through any legal means necessary." the nlrb is an independent u.s. federal government agency in charge of investigating unfair labor practices. a hearing will take place on june 16, the union said. the times co has said that it could impose its pay cuts if it had reached an impasse with the guild. the $10 million that the globe sought from the union is part of a $20 million package of cost cuts that the times wrested from several unions at the paper. the times said the 23 percent pay cut would account for the newspaper guild's cuts after the union rejected the package. "because we have achieved the $20 million in savings we needed, we do not foresee closure at this time and are focused on executing the globe's turnaround plan." the times's statement removes fears among media experts and globe employees that the company could shut down the paper, but does not resolve lingering resentment among the union members. the union said on monday evening that it still wants to sit down with the globe's management to hammer out a new deal. in its statement on tuesday, the union said it scheduled a meeting with times officials next monday to begin work toward a new agreement that its members could support. the globe offered a different interpretation of the meeting. "the meeting scheduled for monday is to discuss the implementation of the 23 percent wage cut," said globe spokesman robert powers. the globe said it still considers talks at an impasse. the times has said that the globe is on track to record an $85 million operating loss this year and that it has to save money to keep the paper viable. --- satyam chairman: rev picture not great in near future  bangalore thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - satyam computer services ltd was under great stress and the revenue outlook of the fraud-hit outsourcing firm was not great in the near future, its chairman said on thursday. on tuesday, satyam, once ranked as india's no. 4 outsourcing firm, released financial figures for the first time since the accounting fraud was revealed in january, showing it has stayed profitable and sparking a surge in its shares. "one has to understand that despite the way the media and probably the market reacted to this, the fact is the company is under severe stress," satyam chairman kiran karnik told reuters, referring to the reaction to the company's financial numbers. "it is hugely overstaffed, costs are very high and the revenue picture in the immediate future is not that gr --- 3 killed in tangail bus crash  tangail, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  three people were killed and 10 injured as a speeding bus skidded and overturned into a roadside ditch on the dhaka-tangail highway on saturday. mizapur police chief md habibullah said the jhatika service bus was on its way to dhaka when it crashed at mirzapur upazila. of the dead two could be identified as nahar akhter, 22, of gaziabari village in delduar upazila and touhid khan of salimabad village in nagarpur upazila. five injured people were admitted to kumudini hospital. the bus driver managed to get away. a case was underway, habibullah said. bdn --- parliament extends speedy trial law  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com) parliament on wednesday extended the controversial speedy trial law for two years. the law and order infringement (speedy trial) (amendment) bill 2009 and public procurement (amendment) bill 2006 are the first two laws passed in the current budget session. main opposition bnp did not join the session on its fifth day. home minister sahara khatun tabled the speedy trial bill in march to keep the law in force until april 6 2010 to combat crimes such as mugging, extortion, terrorism and vandalism in the streets. the bnp-led government introduced the law in 2002, with provision for extension every two years, amid protest by then the opposition awami league. this is the fifth time the law has seen its term extended, including one through an ordinance by the 2007-08 caretaker government. the government said a total of 159 cases were under investigation and 1,246 others on trial under the law up to mar 3, 2009. planning minister ak khandaker placed the public procurement (amendment) bill 2009 in the house on mar 29. telecommunications minister raziuddin ahmed razu presented the annual report of bangladesh telecommunications regulatory commission for 2007-2008 fiscal years before the passage of the bills. speaker abdul hamid adjourned the session until 3.30pm on thursday. bd --- blackrock lands bgi, barclays boosts capital  london/boston fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - blackrock has agreed to buy barclays global investors to create the world's biggest asset manager in a $13.5 billion deal that british bank barclays hopes will put to rest concerns about its capital. the cash and shares deal, unveiled in the united states late on thursday, will see barclays take a 19.9 percent stake and two seats on the board of the enlarged group, to be called blackrock global investors. britain's second biggest bank said on friday a net gain of $8.8 billion would be used to bolster its capital and lift its core tier 1 capital adequacy ratio by 1.5 percentage points to around 8 percent. shares in barclays were down 4.2 percent at 292 pence by 1405 gmt (10:05 a.m. edt) on concern the deal raises dependence on volatile investment banking and after a 7 percent rise this week ahead of the widely anticipated deal. the share price has soared more than five-fold in the last three months, after crashing to a 24-year low on fears that it might need taxpayer funds. "this (bgi) was always a core part of the business until recently but the reality is they need as much capital as possible for the core banking and investment banking business, and they've been able to get a very good price for the asset," said colin morton at rensburg fund management, which owns barclays shares. new york-based blackrock is paying $6.6 billion in cash and the rest in stock. it is raising $2.8 billion from the sale of 19.9 million shares to a group of unnamed institutional investors, which people familiar with the matter had expected to include middle east sovereign wealth funds. the other new investors would get a stake of about 10.5 percent in blackrock and the deal will dilute the stakes of bank of america to 34 percent from 49 percent and cut pnc financial services' holding to 23 percent from 33 percent, according to reuters estimates. shares in blackrock rose 2.3 percent in new york on thursday to close at $182.60 but fell 5.7 percent in morning trading on friday. san francisco-based bgi's $1.5 trillion in funds will give blackrock $2.8 trillion in assets under management, catapulting it to a dominant position with twice the assets of nearest rival state street. all change the sale strengthens barclays' balance sheet after the bank refused aid from the british government that some of its rivals accepted as the global financial crisis engulfed the industry. chief executive john varley said that it will make barclays one of the best capitalised banks in the world and he had "no worries" about the bank's capital position. rising regulatory pressure to keep asset management and investment banking businesses separate and client preferences for independent fund managers also meant other banks were likely to split off fund arms, and the industry would consolidate. "there are a number of pieces of empirical evidence saying this is the way the industry is trending, that's partly a consequence of client preference and partly a consequence of regulation," varley said. "it's amplified in our case by the fact that the lehman transaction has changed the scale of barclays capital." barclays, which bought the u.s. investment banking business of lehman brothers in september, said its trading performance up to the end of may had been "generally consistent" with trends it reported on may 7. barclays has agreed not to sell any of its blackrock shares in the first year without the asset manager's consent, and no more than half its holding in the second year. varley and barclays president bob diamond will each get a seat on blackrock's board. diamond will receive a net consideration of $36 million before any deductions from shares he holds in bgi. he will have paid $10 million to acquire the shares since 2003, barclays said. other bgi staff are in line for a windfall from a lucrative employee share ownership plan. if they exercise options staff will own 9 percent of bgi. bgi is staffed by academics from a range of disciplines from economics to engineering, attracting graduates from the nearby university of california at berkeley. the deal scuppers the planned $4.4 billion sale of ishares, the exchange traded funds arm of bgi, to buyout firm cvc. cvc has until june 18 to improve its offer, but it is unlikely to counterbid as it wanted ishares rather than all of bgi, a person familiar with the situation told reuters. it will get a $175 million break --- 11 'rajakars' face murder charges in bagerhat  bagerhat. june 12 (bdnews24.com)a murder case was filed against 11 alleged pakistan army collaborators and around 25 unknown people at morelganj in bagerhat on charges of killing two freedom fighters during the war of independence. freedom fighter nazrul islam of teligati union filed the case on thursday afternoon at the court of the additional chief magistrate of bagerhat. the plaintiff says on nov 13, 1971, brothers basharat khan and mannan khan were shot dead by a group of armed rajakar members led by rashid khan when they had been passing by the house of motiar rahman at dhuligati of teligati. the court has ordered the officer-in-charge of morelganj police station to investigate the case. steps will be taken according to the court orders after getting the case papers at hand, sub-inspector riazul islam said. the defendants are rashid khan, 65, babul sheikh, 57, ashraf khan, 65. mokser didar, 80, sultan khan, 66, from teligati; akram khan, 56, shahadat sardar, 55, from daibagyahati village; shahjahan mistri, 65, from katabunia; rustam ali, 55, from joshordi under kochua upazila; ensab ali khan, 75, from khalkulia and sheikh ukil uddin, 56, from chanmari of rupsha upazila in khulna. bdn --- japan climate goal "much below" what needed: china  bonn, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - japan's target to cut emissions by 15 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 is not close to what is required for rich countries to take their responsbility for climate change, china's climate ambassador yu qingtai said. yu was speaking on wednesday on the sidelines of un-led, june -1-12 climate talks in bonn, germany involving 181 countries, meant to culminate in agreement on a new global climate pact in copenhagen in december. those talks have struggled to agree on how to share the costs of climate change between developed -- called annex one -- and developing nations. "in our view it would be much below what japan as an annex one country would need to do to meet its obligations," yu told reuters, reacting to japan's new 2020 target. japan would cut greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent by 2020 from 2005 levels, prime minister taro aso said on wednesday. "i do not believe it is a number that is close to what japan needs to do, should do," said yu. "(tokyo should) look seriously at what japan needs to do to make a fair contribution to international cooperation to fight climate change." "developing countries are victims of global warming created by many years of cumulative emissions by the developed countries in their process of industrialisat --- france, germany deplore myanmar attitude  paris, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - france and germany criticised the myanmar authorities on thursday for their attitude over detained opposition leader aung san suu kyi and said they were trying to enlist china and india to exert further pressure on the country. nobel peace laureate suu kyi is on trial in myanmar for breaking the terms of her house arrest after an american man swam uninvited to her lakeside home. the case has sparked outrage in the west, and europe has considered tougher sanctions against the military government. speaking at a joint news conference with german chancellor angela merkel in paris, french president nicolas sarkozy expressed the leaders' deep worry over suu kyi, who has been detained for more than 13 of the past 19 years. "i tried to reach her by telephone in recent days. the burmese junta refused to allow contact," said sarkozy. "i deplore this attitude very deeply and mrs merkel and i have decided to express our great concern at this extraordinary burmese attitude." france and germany were asking china and india to take their concerns into account a few days before suu kyi appeared likely to be sentenced, sarkozy said. speaking late on wednesday, suu kyi's lawyer said that the detained opposition leader believed her trial was an attempt by the ruling generals to prevent her from running in multi-party elections next year. in asia, governments have gone no further than chastising the regime for putting suu kyi on trial. eu ministers have said it is incumbent upon myanmar's neighbours to try to sway the regime through political pressure. the association of southeast asian nations (asean), which includes myanmar, has said that the trial threatened the regime's "honour and credibility" and repeated a call for her release. myanmar's main backer, china, has said myanmar should be left alone to handle its internal aff --- fbcci has few complaints  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)the country's apex trade federation has congratulated the government on presenting what it termed an "industry-friendly" as well as "welfare-oriented" budget. "the budget has addressed many of the concerns we placed before the government in pre-budget talks," fbcci president annisul huq said at a budget review meeting on saturday. "the government has initiated some steps to cushion the onslaught of global recession," said huq. business leaders from all sectors joined huq in lauding the finance minister's proposed budget for fy2009-10, presented thursday in parliament, for its pro-business and pro-people aspects. but, huq said: "not all of our proposals, which should be executed urgently for the economic development of the country, carried weight in the proposed budget." "the government has levied a 10 percent tax for undisclosed money, to be invested in certain industries, while we propose the tax be revised down to seven percent." "but as the tax is so high, i expect the culture of black money will die out within three years," the chief of the country's apex business body said. the unprecedented three-year 'money whitening' scheme has drawn resounding flak from analysts, public and other political parties since its announcement in thursday's budget speech. huq on saturday urged political parties to "shun the long practice of rejecting a proposed budget just for the sake of opposition". "such a culture needs changing. we should accept the good, and advise how to rectify the bad," he said. the fbcci boss, in a written statement, thanked the government for its generous allocations for public-private partnership initiatives, information technology, infrastructure, human resources development, health and family planning and social safety nets. but he feared a tk 34,000 crore budget deficit, to be partly financed by bank loans, might constrain the loan flow to the private sector. he also said cars and microbuses up to 1500cc and 2000cc respectively should be considered as daily necessities instead of terming them 'luxury items' and raising import duty on them. bdn --- buddhist monk killed in south thai violence  yala, thailand, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a buddhist monk was killed and another seriously injured when they were gunned down while collecting alms as more violence erupted in thailand's restive south, police said on friday. the attack was the latest in a recent flare-up of bloody violence in the muslim-majority region near the malaysian border, where nearly 3,500 people have been killed in five years of unrest. police said suspected separatist insurgents dressed in exercise clothes rode past on motorcycles and fired automatic weapons at the monks as they collected food donations in an urban area of yala province. thailand's south has been hit by its deadliest week of violence this year, with 24 people killed and more than 40 injured in the last seven days, which included the fatal shooting of 10 muslims praying in a mosque.[id:nl81020018] monday's attack raised tensions between muslims and the region's minority buddhists and villagers have accused the military of involvement, saying no muslim was capable of such an act. the army rejected the claims and blamed insurgents for the attack. the organization of the islamic conference has urged bangkok to probe what it said was the latest aggressive act on southern muslims by "armed and organised elements". [id:nbkk463005] mystery surrounds who is behind the violence in yala, pattani and narathiwat, which was part of an independent malay muslim sultanate until annexed by buddhist thailand a century ago. no credible group has stated its aims or claimed responsibility for the gun, bomb and arson attacks, which the 30,000 troops stationed in the region have failed to prevent. --- russia says expecting new north korea missile test  seoul, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia has information on north korean plans to launch a ballistic missile but does not know when it will take place, interfax news agency quoted a senior russian military source as saying on wednesday. the news comes as south korea's defense minister said the north's recent moves were linked to leader kim jong-il's succession plans, and as world powers at the united nations edged toward an agreement on how to punish pyonyang. north korea has angered the region and beyond in the past few weeks with missile launches, threats to attack the south and a nuclear test, prompting u.s. and south korean forces to raise a military alert on the peninsula to one of its highest since the 1950-53 korean war. cranking up tension, russia's military said it had information on plans for another missile launch. "we have certain information about the type and characteristics of the missile. however, we do not have accurate data on the timing," interfax news agency quoted a senior military source as saying. south korean defense minister lee sang-hee, meanwhile, linked the north's threats and flurry of military activity to kim jong-il paving the way for his son to succeed him. "kim jong-il is bloodshot in the eyes trying to build a succession plan to pass on power by creating tension ... while ignoring the desperate plight of his starving people and the impoverished state of the economy," he said in an address to troops, according to a military aide on wednesday. "the north korean regime is an unethical, irresponsible and inhumane group which puts its own survival ahead of the lives and happiness of the people." lawmakers briefed on succession south korean lawmakers said they were briefed by the south's spy agency and told the north's leaders have started the groundwork that would allow kim's youngest son, swiss-educated jong-un, to take over power. analysts said the show of military strength might help leader kim, 67, divert attention from an faltering economy that has only grown worse under his rule and also boost support after a suspected stroke about a year ago raised questions over his iron grip on power. his economy could take another hit as the united states and japan have pushed for strong sanctions to punish north korea for its nuclear test, but china and russia have been cautious about provoking pyongyang by imposing more sanctions. north korea appeared to be ready to ratchet up tensions by firing a long-range missile that could reach u.s. territory and mid-range missiles capable of striking anywhere in the south and most of japan, officials said. north korean state media said the state would press on with boosting its nuclear deterrence to counter what it saw as hostile moves by a nuclear-armed united states. the u.s. special envoy on north korea, stephen bosworth, said in new york that the united states will do what is necessary for the security of its allies but has no plans to invade the north or overthrow its government by force. in an indication of growing concern for possible aggression by the north, south korea has doubled the deployment of naval destroyers and patrol vessels in disputed waters off the peninsula's west coast, a report in the south korean daily dong-a ilbo said on wednesday. north korean vessels last week intruded into the south's territorial waters, retreating after warning maneuvers by south korean navy. the area off the west coast of the peninsula has been the site of two deadly naval battles between the rival states over the past 10 years. --- tax holidays to go after 2012  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)tax holidays will not be extended after 2012, every industry will have to pay some level of tax after that period, according to ama muhith's new budget. "tax holidays act as an impediment to the taxpaying culture," the finance minister told parliament in his budget speech thursday. "so, this existing system of tax holiday, which remains in force until 2012, shall not be extended any further," he proposed. muhith said it would be more appropriate to replace existing tax holidays with tax incentives. he said it would more enable an environment for industrialisation, investment and job creation in the country. a reduced tax rate for certain sectors which would vary for newly established industries from location to location has been also proposed in the budget. according to the proposed new budget, new industries in dhaka and chittagong divisions except rangamati, bandarban and khagrachhari would have to pay taxes at 5 percent for the first and second year, 10 percent for the third and fourth year and 15 percent in the fifth year. in rajshahi, khulna, sylhet, barisal divisions and in the hill tracts of chittagong division the figure would be 5 percent for the first three years, 10 percent for the following three years and 15 percent in the seventh year. --- govt says considers troop cut in kashmir towns  srinagar, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - as violence ebbs in kashmir, the government is planning to withdraw some troops from towns across the disputed himalayan region, the country's home minister said on friday. kashmir is a core issue between rivals india and pakistan, and tens of thousands of people have been killed in the mainly muslim region since a rebellion against indian rule broke out there in 1989. a partial withdrawal would mark the first troop reduction in the region's urban areas since separatists started their campaign 20 years ago. "it is our intention to redraw the lines of responsibilities. the army holds the responsibility for conventional defence at the borders and for fighting infiltration," home minister palaniappan chidambaram told a news conference. "the army also comes to the aid of the state in countering terrorism, but we would like the army do it in areas far away from towns and cities." chidambaram did not give a timeframe for any withdrawal. "i cannot fix the time limit now," he said. "it will take time, but this is the direction." chidambaram said responsibility for maintaining law and order in towns and cities would be handed to local police. there are an estimated 500,000 indian troops in jammu and kashmir, more than 40 percent of the army. the move to reduce troop numbers comes after prime minister manmohan singh said this week he was ready to meet pakistan "more than half-way" if pakistan cracked down on militants. islamabad welcomed singh's comments. separatist groups in kashmir have long demanded the withdrawal of indian troops and the scrapping of anti-terrorism laws, including the armed forces special powers act that gives sweeping powers to security forces in kashmir. chidambaram's comments came after the rape and deaths of two kashmiri muslim women, allegedly by security forces triggered large anti-india protests across the region. one protester has died and hundreds have been injured in the protests. police say medical tests confirmed the rape and murder of the pair aged 17 and 22, but they are still looking for the culprits. experts described india's decision to cut troops as a sign of changing times. "a strong new government in delhi is feeling confident to deal with the kashmir problem," said masood ahmed, a srinagar-based political analyst. "it does not surprise me as violence has nearly disappeared in kashmir and that is why they are thinking of cutting down tro --- obama sends letter to indian government: holbrooke  washington, jun 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us president barack obama has sent a letter to the indian government, the us special envoy for afghanistan and pakistan said on wednesday without providing details on the contents. the envoy, richard holbrooke, told reporters that us undersecretary of state william burns was delivering the "presidential letter" while visiting new delhi this week. holbrooke, who visited pakistan last week to assess relief efforts to help the estimated 2 million people who have fled a pakistani offensive against the taliban, declined to comment on the contents of the letter. us officials would like to see a reduction in tensions between india and pakistan in part in the hopes that islamabad can redeploy troops from its eastern border with india to fight the taliban on its western border with afghanistan --- us drone kills 3 in pakistan; bomb kills 7  dera ismail khan, pakistan, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a suspected us drone aircraft fired a missile on sunday killing three militants in northwest pakistan, while elsewhere in the region, a bomb blast in a market killed seven people, officials said. nuclear-armed pakistani is struggling to push back a growing taliban insurgency and security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting against taliban militants in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad. the militants have responded with a wave of bomb attacks. separately, the united states, alarmed by deteriorating security in afghanistan, has been using drone aircraft to attack taliban and al qaeda fighters in northwestern pakistani militant strongholds. pakistan, a nuclear-armed us ally, objects to the us missile strikes saying they violate its sovereignty and undermine efforts to deal with militancy because they inflame public anger and bolster militant support. the strike on sunday was in laddah, in the south waziristan region, about 60 km (40 miles) north of the region's main town of wana, and a stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud. "the missile destroyed the vehicle and i saw three bodies lying next to it," ethnic pashtun tribal leader habibullah mehsud told reuters by telephone from the region on the afghan border. a government official in the region confirmed the attack, saying drones had been flying over south waziristan since early in the morning. pakistani warplanes struck another mehsud stronghold on saturday in retaliation for the killing of an anti-taliban cleric in a suicide bomb attack in the city of lahore the previous day, the military said. the sunday bomb attack was in a market in the northwestern town of dera ismail khan. "it seems the bomb was planted. at the moment, we have at least seven dead and 50 wounded," syed mohsin shah, the top government official in the city, told reuters. rising violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states, which needs its muslim ally's help to defeat al qaeda and stabilize neighboring afghanistan. on thursday, the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for five years to help combat extremism through development. pakistan is now the biggest recipient of us --- taliban raids up, plan to disrupt afghan poll: govt  kabul, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - afghanistan's interior minister said on sunday the taliban have stepped up their attacks in many parts of the country and warned the islamist militants would attempt to sabotage an aug. 20 presidential election. hanif atmar's comments mirror those of us and nato military commanders who said insurgent attacks soared 59 percent in the first five months of 2009 compared with the same period last year to reach the highest level since the taliban's overthrow in 2001. like us central command chief general david petraeus, who is responsible for us military strategy in the middle east and central asia, atmar also warned worse was to come as more us and afghan troops pursue taliban fighters in their strongholds. the august election, afghanistan's second presidential poll, is seen as a crucial point for both kabul and its western-backed government and for washington, which has identified afghanistan as its top military priority. washington has already increased its military presence to 56,000 troops, up from about 32,000 in late 2008, in part to provide extra security for the august vote. us troop numbers will rise further to 68,000 by year's end. atmar said more than 250 people, many of them militants and including some foreign insurgents, were killed during attacks by the taliban in 25 of afghanistan's 34 provinces last week. police and civilians were also among the dead. petraeus identified the past week as having the most security incidents in afghanistan's "post-liberation history". the number of attacks, which included suicide strikes, roadside bombings and ambushes, was 40 percent higher than the previous week, atmar told a news conference. he said the escalation in attacks came with the thawing of snow in the mountains to mark the start of the traditional fighting season in afghanistan. he said the militants also had two other purposes. "the enemy wants to totally hinder this (poll) process ... and wants to send a message to the international community that even if you increase your troops, we will step up our attacks," atmar said. he said the afghan government, with the help of its foreign backers, would do all it could to stop the taliban achieving its aims. access to more money and arms from overseas had enabled the taliban to increase their attacks, he said, reiterating that their main source of support was in the mountainous tribal regions of neighbouring pakistan. us-led troops overthrew the taliban government after its leadership refused to hand over al qaeda leaders wanted by washington for masterminding the sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the united states. the taliban have called the august poll a sham and have vowed to drive foreign troops from afghani --- mediators await netanyahu speech, hoping for change  jerusalem, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu is to deliver a major policy speech on sunday that western power-brokers hope will make a clear commitment to pursue peace with the palestinians. netanyahu's refusal to declare a building freeze in jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and to endorse the goal of establishing a palestinian state -- both set out in a 2003 peace "road map" -- has opened a rare rift in us israeli relations. anxious to preserve the alliance but also beholden to his fractious and right-leaning governing coalition, netanyahu has spoken of stop-gap proposals such as palestinian self-government shorn of sovereign powers like the right to set up an army. the palestinians, having won limited autonomy under 1993 interim accords, insist on full statehood. yet theirs is now a divided polity, with hamas islamists who reject coexistence with the jewish state in control of the gaza strip since 2007. us president barack obama says containing iran's nuclear aspirations -- which israel considers a major threat -- would be helped by progress toward a palestine deal. an israeli official said netanyahu was still putting final touches to the speech which would "present a vision of moving forward in the peace process with the palestinians." "in the framework of that, we want to see the arab states play an increased role," the official said. "the speech will acknowledge the road map and deal with the issue of statehood." what israelis want briefing counterparts in the so-called quartet of middle east mediators after talks with netanyahu, u.s. officials this week were skeptical he would make the clear, far-reaching and tangible commitments on settlements or statehood obama wants. "i don't know what he wants to say but what i would like to hear ... is that (israel) will stop settlements and will resume negotiations with the palestinians," european union foreign policy chief javier solana said during a west bank visit. polls show israeli opinion is divided, but one survey indicates voters have a more hard-nosed attitude to giving up land for a peace they are not sure they would have. tamar hermann, a sociologist who has conducted a monthly "peace index" survey for years, said she found that until a month ago, between 60 and 75 percent of israelis answered in surveys that they supported a two-state solution. but this month just 41 percent saw palestinian statehood as a viable option, said hermann, dean of israel's open university. fewer israelis say they are willing to yield the minimum palestinians seek for a deal -- the eventual dismantling of most israeli settlements built in the occupied territory. hermann said 53 percent now oppose removing the enclaves. but pollster rafi smith finds that 55 percent of israelis still support a two-state solution and 57 percent backed obama's call for a halt to settlement construction.. but a whopping 85 percent doubt the exercise will lead to eventual peace. "the israeli public has moved to the right because their concept of trust in the arabs is very low. the problem is that we don't trust the arabs and they don't trust us," smith said. "israelis agree there should be two states, but don't believe it will ever happen." us-backed palestinian president mahmoud abbas's security forces have been cracking down on hamas in the west bank, where israel has long demanded security assurances ahead of any territorial handovers to the palestinians. but many israelis regard the west bank, captured from jordan in a 1967 war, as a biblical jewish birthright and the netanyahu government intends to keep major settlement blocs under a peace accord -- a plan palestinians rule out as a non-sta --- us asstt secy of state robert blake arrives  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)us assistant secretary of state for south and central asian affairs robert o blake arrived saturday afternoon on a two day visit to bangladesh. this is blake's maiden visit to bangladesh as assistant secretary, said a statement of the american centre. his predecessor richard a boucher visited bangladesh in february to meet the leaders of the newly elected government in bangladesh. blake is set to meet with prime minister sheikh hasina, foreign minister dipu moni, home minister sahara khatun, and leader of the opposition khaleda zia, during his visit. --- us forces kill `warlord' in afghan air strike  kabul, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us forces in afghanistan killed a man they described as a `warlord' and 16 other militants in an air strike, the us military said on wednesday. they named the target as mullah mustafa, and described him as a commander of about 100 armed men in ghor province in the west of afghanistan, with links to both the taliban leadership and iran's revolutionary guards. the military said us-led coalition forces had called in the air strike after observing the commander leaving his compound in ghor's mountainous sharak district and meeting with fighters in a remote area on tuesday. us forces in afghanistan frequently rely on air strikes to kill suspected militant comman --- south africa captain wants icc ruling on broad actions  nottingham, england, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - south africa captain graeme smith wants the international cricket council to clarify whether england bowler stuart broad's actions are within the spirit of the game, he said on thursday. halfway into his bowling run-up broad has on several occasions looked away and pointed, which can break the batsman's concentration. he repeated the gesture in thursday's twenty20 world cup match at trent bridge, which south africa won. "we saw it happen from the dugout and obviously discussed it," smith told reporters. "i don't know what the rules stipulate. the match referee and umpires need to discuss that." "whether it is in the spirit of the game is a tough one. bowlers are trying to find different angles in terms of getting an edge but it's probably best we leave stuart to answer that one (if it is fair). it needs clarifying," he added. england captain paul collingwood said it was ok with him and another way to gain an advantage in a batsman-dominated game. cricket has made efforts in recent years to ensure fair play and certain tactics can be outlawed if they are thought to contravene the spirit of the game --- pakistan targets taliban in new combat zone, kill scores  bannu,pakistan, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the pakistani army attacked an area bordering a militant stronghold near the waziristan tribal region on thursday, killing scores of taliban fighters with helicopter gunships and artillery shelling, officials said. already in the final stages of an operation to clear islamist fighters from the swat valley, far to the northwest and closer to islamabad, the military said it went on the offensive in bannu district after up to 800 militants infiltrated from waziristan. us officials, who have been worried that nuclear-armed pakistan could slide into chaos unless the taliban's advance weren't stopped, have welcomed the offensive in swat. there has been speculation that once that was over the focus would switch to waziristan, long regarded as a hub of taliban and al qaeda activity. according to local military officials and a senior civilian official in bannu well over 100 militants have been killed since the army swung into action on wednesday. "the operation is going on very well. helicopter gunships, artillery, everything is being used," kamran zeb, the top administrator in bannu, told reuters. "yesterday, around 100 militants were killed in the operation," zeb said, adding that there had been more killed on thursday. lying just outside the tribal areas, bannu is the gateway to waziristan and is 150 km (94 miles) southwest of peshawar, the capital of north west frontier province, where a suicide truck bomb attack on a luxury hotel killed at least 9 people on tuesday. speaking in washington on wednesday, richard holbrooke, the us special representative for afghanistan and pakistan, said he saw a dramatic shift in the pakistani government's attitude because of public outrage over the taliban's actions, including the attack on the hotel. "what i saw in pakistan on this trip was a slow emergence of a consensus behind the government's actions," holbrooke said in washington, reporting back on his trip last week. aid crunch pakistan's decision to opt for military action in swat has been helped by a shift in public opinion. that support might ebb if the welfare of some 2.5 million people displaced by the conflict in the northwest is mishandled. nine aid agencies said on thursday in london they would be forced to stop or cut back supplies of aid unless a funding crisis was resolved. the united nations has appealed for $543 million, but has received only $138 million -- a quarter of that so far. the united nations is heavily involved in relief efforts, and 5 u.n. workers, including two foreigners, were among those killed in the suicide attack on peshawar's pearl continental hotel. security forces also used artillery and warplanes to obliterate a militant compound in the tribal region of orakzai, killing at least five people, but probably more, according to the the region's mayor. "it's been heavy bombing and there must be many more casualties, both militants and civilians. we're trying to collect the numbers," mayor gul khitab said. a pro-taliban cleric, maulvi jameel, said several militants' positions and hideouts had been struck during the raid. he didn't have information about casualties. immediately to the southwest of peshawar, militants had until a year ago little presence in orakzai, one of the more developed tribal regions. in south waziristan, militants fired rockets at a paramilitary base in jandola killing two soldiers. the military have bottled up the main forces of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud in rugged mountains close to jandola. a soldier was killed in another attack by the militants in the same region, while taliban officials said four of their fighters were killed in the fighting in south waziristan. there have been clashes scattered across swat this week, but the largest population centers and key roads have been cleared of taliban, and the army has smashed the militants main bases and training camps in the mountains. the military says more than 1,300 militants and 105 soldiers have been killed in swat, though there are no independent casualty estimates available. some taliban fighters have fled through the passes to the kalam valley in the north, and upper dir district, where the army has backed a tribal militia, or lashkar, that has turned on the insurg --- 12 cases against hasina 'to be dropped'  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)  twelve cases against prime minister sheikh hasina will be revoked on the grounds of 'political harassment', the state minister for law said on wednesday. the anticorruption commission filed ten of the cases against hasina during the immediate past caretaker government on various charges. the decision came from the first meeting of the scrutiny committee on petitions for cancelling 'political harassment' cases, kamrul islam told reporters after attending the meeting at the home ministry. the committee also decided to repeal another 50 cases against leaders of the ruling awami league that include nine against tofael ahmed, 13 against kamal ahmed majumdar, six against abul hasnat abdullah, four against bahauddin nasim and two against mohiuddin khan alamgir, said islam. they also include one each against mosharraf hossain, hazi moqbul hossain and state minister for public works abdul mannan khan. the committee reviewed 113 cases in total in the meeting, the minister said. no petitions of the opposition bnp leaders have yet been sent to the home ministry, he added. 'directions' the relevant deputy commissioners will be given directions and the anticorruption commission will be requested to take steps to withdraw the cases, said islam. "the home ministry will write to the deputy commissioners and government lawyers to directly revoke those cases, filed under crpc. and the cases filed by aac will be forwarded for legal actions attaching comments." asked whether the comments attached could be interpreted as 'interference from government', kamrul replied, "we are speaking of those cases filed with political motivation, where the acc did not work independently." "of course the government would not as a rule interfere in the acc's activities. the acc will work according to its rule." all al to date a total of 824 petitions were submitted to the home ministry up to wednesday after filtering through different phases, said kamrul islam. all of them were from ruling party awami league members. he said his committee found 62 cases revocable among 113 filed petitions in the first meeting. of these, 36 were filed under the criminal procedure code and the rest filed by the anticorruption commission. the state minister speculating that the number of petitions received after filtering through the district level committees may be around 5,000 out of the tens of thousands of applications submitted countrywide. kamrul said the committee's final decisions will be executed quickly. however, the scrutiny committee has requested the home ministry to extend its deadline up to june 30, he said. its second meeting will be on june 21. vetting for 'real criminals' the committee was formed on feb 22, after the law ministry said it would look into "cases of political harassment under the past bnp and caretaker governments". the law minister later said that "politically motivated" cases filed during any previous government could be appealed. "we are being very careful to ensure that any real criminal can not abuse this offer to revoke only political harassment cases," said islam. "the recommendations would only be made for fully politically motivated ones." bdnews --- un warns of catastrophe as hungry people top 1 billion  rome, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - high food prices have pushed another 105 million people into hunger in the first half of 2009, the head of the un world food program said friday, raising the total number of hungry people to over 1 billion. urging rich nations at a meeting of the group of eight's development ministers not to cut back on aid, josette sheeran told reuters the world faced a "human catastrophe" as more and more people struggle to eat a decent meal. "this year we are clocking in on average four million new hungry people a week, urgently hungry," sheeran told reuters. "already for the first six months of this year, 105 million people have been added," she said, citing figures to be released by the un food and agriculture organization next week that will raise the total number of undernourished people to over 1 billion. in 2008, fao said the world's hungry numbered 963 million. the wfp needs $6.4 billion this year for food aid, but donors' contributions have fallen way behind that level -- it had around $1.5 billion at the end of last week. the agency says it has had to cut food aid rations and shut down some operations in eastern africa and north korea because of the credit crunch. "i know it seems a big figure, but if you compare it with the global stimulus package, it means that for less than 1 percent of that we could help meet the urgent human crisis that is unfolding, and that is just as essential to the stability of the world," sheeran said. she said that despite a decline in most food prices from record peaks last year, they remained stubbornly high in developing countries, while global food aid was at a 20-year low. the financial crisis has only made things worse, and in terms of staple food, people in poorer countries today can only afford about a third of what they could afford three years ago. in a statement after a two-day meeting in rome, g8 ministers reaffirmed their commitment to more than double aid to africa to $25 billion a year by 2010. but a report this week said the group was collectively off course in delivering on those pledges, made at a g8 summit in scotland in 2005. the report, by anti-poverty body one, was particularly critical of italy, saying rome was trailing far behind other nations in meeting aid targets and that undermined its credibility as g8 president this year. "we have confirmed our commitment to find the resources this year to bring us back on track and fulfill our undertakings," foreign minister franco frattini told reporters friday, responding to the report. one said italy had delivered only three percent of the aid increase to africa pledged by prime minister silvio berlusconi four years --- 3 suspected muggers injured in rayerbazar shootout  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)mohammadpur police arrested three suspected bullet-hit muggers early on sunday from rayer bazaar in the capital. as many as 23 people have so far been injured and two killed in one month since may 13 in alleged 'shootouts' with police in the capital. shahjahan kabir, mohammadpur police chief, said a police patrol challenged passengers cruising around suspiciously in a black cab in rayer bazaar boddhyobhumi (killing ground) area at 4am on sunday. at that, the taxi passengers opened fire and police retaliated, he added. two or three miscreants managed to escape the scene. police arrested injured cab driver lutfar rahman, 45, mahbubur rahman, 40, and noor hossain, 40, with bullet injuries from the spot and seized the cab and sharp weapons. police filed a case against the three. the injured were admitted to dhaka medical college hospital. in another incident, one bachchu mia, 40, a security guard of a house on sher shah shuri road, was shot and injured. sub-inspector kaiser ahmed said some youths knocked at the doors of 73 sher shah shuri road, looking for a man named monir. as bachchu did not let them in, an altercation followed and the strangers shot the guard in both legs. the injured bachchu has been admitted to dhaka medical college hospital. miscreants have so far shot and killed a cable tv connection provider and injured another four by spraying bullets in june in mohammadpur. bd --- japan's players land in australia in flu masks  melbourne, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - japan's soccer players arrived in australia on saturday wearing face masks as a precaution against 'swine flu' before their final world cup qualifier. australian officials said wednesday's asian world cup qualifying group one match in melbourne would go ahead as scheduled despite the sharp rise of h1n1 flu cases in the country. the flu has already caused disruptions to australia's sporting calendar with a swimming meet in melbourne cancelled last week. a handful of top-flight rugby and australian rules players were also quarantined after testing positive for the virus. wednesday's match has effectively become a dead rubber after both teams safely booked their places in next year's world cup in south africa last weekend. japan arrived in australia without several key players, including celtic midfielder shunsuke nakamura, but were taking no chances with the health of those who did make the trip. passengers arriving at australian airports have been subjected to thermal scanning and issued with hygiene warnings. all of the japan players and coaching staff were wearing face masks upon arrival but removed them after leaving the airport. the japan players shook off the cobwebs from their overnight flight with a light training session at a suburban park later on saturday. "we have 15 points (from seven games) which was our objective," japan coach takeshi okada told japanese media before leaving tokyo on friday. "it hurts that australia have 17 points. they'll be at full strength and we expect a tough game but we plan to return home having finished top of the group." australian media reported more than 130 new cases of the virus last weekend. the h1n1 flu has infected almost 30,000 people in over 70 countries with 145 deaths reported, according to the world health organisation --- fertliser subsidy cut, farm loan rises  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)subsidy for fertiliser has been reduced to tk. 3,600 crore from tk 5,785 crore in the proposed budget whereas the government has set a target to increase the agricultural loan to tk 10,000 crore. finance minister ama muhith said in his budget speech on thursday that tk. 4,285 crore had been allocated in the budget of fy 2008-09 for subsidy for fertiliser and other agricultural inputs to help the farmers. "due to abnormal price hike of urea and non-urea fertiliser in the international market around that time, the amount of subsidy was raised by tk 1,500 crore to tk 5,785 crore for keeping the market price at an affordable level for the farmers." recently, the price level has come down to a third of that in the international market. "against this backdrop, i propose to allocate tk 3,600 crore as subsidy in this sector for the next fiscal year," he said. muhith said in fy 2008-09 the target was to distribute tk 9,379 crore in farm loan and until march tk 6,907 crore had been disbursement, which was 73.6 percent of the target. in the next fiscal year, the government plans to increase the target of agricultural loan from tk 9,379 crore to tk 10,000 crore and continue loan programmes at specially reduced rate of interest in the hill districts. "our economy is agro-based. we have, therefore, given highest priority to overall agriculture and rural development sector. "the contribution of our agriculture sector to the economy is 22 percent of gdp and 48 percent of our labour force is engaged in this sector," minister said. he added that the government planned several steps for increasing food production. "these include expansion of irrigation facility using surface water in southern areas, addressing water logging in the south-western region, expanding cultivable land by improving drainage system in the haor areas and by creating opportunities for multiple-cropping. "i propose to allocate tk 4,000 crore for fy 2009-10 to implement these projects." "to increase crop production in fy 2009-10, we have taken seven programmes and six projects for developing high yielding variety seeds at a cost of tk 280 crore, to be implemented by badc and agricultural extension department." the minister proposed allocation of tk 185.21 crore for agricultural research and agricultural rehabilitation assistance for maintaining the growth of crop production. the proceeds from investment of agriculture research endowment fund, created in fy 2007-08, will be used for agriculture research. "i propose to allocate tk. 5,965 crore, development and non-development combined, for the ministry of agriculture in fy 2009-10." "we have a plan to provide incentives to 12,000 farmers for increasing milk and meat production. we have also a plan to establish farms for lambs and buffaloes. to implement these programmes, the budget allocated tk 716 crore combining development and non-development budget, which is 19 percent higher than the revised budget of the current year. --- nasa fuels space shuttle endeavour for launch  cape canaveral, fla., jun 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - nasa filled space shuttle endeavour's fuel tank on friday for an early-morning liftoff on a mission to deliver the last part of japan's laboratory to the international space station. endeavour and its seven-member crew are scheduled to blast off at 7:17 a.m. edt (1117 gmt) on saturday from the kennedy space center in florida. with good weather expected for launch, technicians began pumping a half-million gallons (1.9 million litres) of liquid oxygen and liquid hydrogen into the shuttle's fuel tanks around 10 p.m. edt on friday (0200 gmt on saturday). endeavour is carrying a japanese-built porch that will be installed on the space station's $2.4 billion kibo complex, japan's primary contribution to the $100 billion orbiting research outpost. the lab includes a robot arm and a small airlock so science experiments can be installed outside the station and retrieved without the need for spacewalks by station or shuttle crew members. endeavour also is carrying laboratory racks, experiments, supplies and dozens of spare parts, which will be stored aboard the outpost in preparation for when the shuttle is no longer flying. nasa has eight shuttle missions remaining to complete construction of the space station. it plans to retire the three-ship fleet at the end of 2010. the endeavour crew plans to spend 12 days at the station and conduct five spacewalks to install the porch, replace batteries and tackle a long list of maintenance tasks. the mission is nasa's first since the station's live-aboard crew was expanded from three to six members last month. when the shuttle crew arrives, it will bring the total number of people aboard the space station to a record 13. the combined crew includes two canadian astronauts -- station flight engineer robert thirsk and endeavour astronaut julie payette -- japan's koichi wakata, europe's frank de winne, russian cosmonauts gennady padalka and roman romanenko and seven us astronauts. wakata will be returning home with the shuttle crew after a three-month stay on the station. his replacement is nasa astronaut timothy kopra, one of endeavour's four rookie fliers --- sunamganj-4 set for by-election  sunamganj, june 14 (bdnews24.com)sunamganj-4 is set for monday's by-election, the seat becoming vacant on the death of jatiya party mp momotaj iqbal in april. district polling officer farhad hossain told reporters on sunday that ballot papers and boxes were sent to 105 polling stations to serve 230,835 registered voters in the constituency. candidates including the grand alliance's matiur rahman, four-party alliance's fazlul haque aspia and a farmer from the national peoples party, mohammad sadek. a total of 1,509 officers are on duty for the by-election, said hossain. every union will have one magistrate on duty. hossain said 24 law enforcers, including police and ansar, will be in charge of security at each polling booths. there will be mobile teams of rab and armed police, he said. four polling centres have been identified as "risky." bdnews24 --- peul smriti hammer fakirerpool  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com) - peul smriti sangsad of jhenidah bounced back in the bashundhara champions club cup football tournament with a massive 5-0 win over youngmens club fakirerpool of dhaka in group b match at the shamsul huda stadium in jessore on sunday. peul smriti, who went down 6-1 against feni soccer club in the group opener, enjoyed superior ball possession throughout the game that resulted in a 3-0 lead in the first half with khaled opening the account in the 13th minute. four minutes later ujjal doubled the margin and ripon made it 3-0 in the 30th minute. khaled struck his second and team's fourth in the 60th minute before jahirul sealed the match in stoppage time. despite their massive win in their second and final match, peul smriti have a little chance to make it into the semi-finals as the jhenidah outfit will have to wait for the outcome of fakirerpool and feni soccer club, who just need a draw in their group final match to see them in the last four. away at cox's bazar, shuktara jubo sangsad of narayanganj made a winning start after thrashing chittagong mohammedan sc (blues) 3-0 in the group c opener. khokon gave shuktara a 14th minute lead before monir hossain struck twice in the 52nd and 68th minute to ensure all the points. bd --- new flu has been around for years in pigs: study  washington, thu jun 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the new h1n1 virus, which has caused the first pandemic of the 21st century, appears to have been circulating undetected among pigs for years, researchers reported on thursday. although health officials have been watching for new influenza viruses in humans, animal health regulators have missed the opportunity to check swine, the researchers reported. britons andrew rambaut of the university of edinburgh and oliver pybus of oxford university, and yi guan of the university of hong kong examined the genetic sequence of the new h1n1 swine flu virus. like others who have done the same, they show it is a mixture of other viruses that had been circulating in pigs, one of which was itself a mixture including swine, human and avian-like genetic sequences. "we show that it was derived from several viruses circulating in swine, and that the initial transmission to humans occurred several months before recognition of the outbreak," they wrote. "movement of live pigs between eurasia and north america seems to have facilitated the mixing of diverse swine influenza viruses, leading to the multiple reassortment events associated with the genesis of the (new h1n1) strain," they added. "yet despite widespread influenza surveillance in humans, the lack of systematic swine surveillance allowed for the undetected persistence and evolution of this potentially pandemic strain for many years." they said this new pandemic "provides further evidence of the role of domestic pigs in the ecosystem of influenza a." the new virus, which was first reported in two u.s. children in march, apparently infected people as early as last january in mexico, health officials have said. the world health organization declared it a full pandemic on thursday, meaning it is circulating globally and cannot be stopped. molecular clock the international team also used a "molecular clock" method to compare the current virus to its relatives and estimate its age based on the mutations. this gives a rough idea of when the new virus is likely to have emerged. "we found that the common ancestor of the (new h1n1) outbreak and the closest related swine viruses existed between 9.2 and 17.2 years ago, depending on the genomic segment, hence the ancestors of the epidemic have been circulating undetected for about a decade," they wrote. "thus, this genomic structure may have been circulating in pigs for several years before emergence in humans," they added. the pork industry has been vociferously protesting use of the term "swine flu" to describe the virus. fears that the pandemic would affect pork prices caused world health organization officials to use the generic designation of "influenza a(h1n1)" -- which also refers to one of the current seasonal flu strains. last week the us agriculture department said it would launch a pilot surveillance project to look for new strains of flu virus in pigs. also last week, gerardo nava of the national autonomous university of mexico and colleagues reported that their genetic analysis also pointed to north american swine as a potential source of the new virus. cooked pork is no threat but live pigs can get influenza as easily as people do and people and pigs can sometimes pass viruses back and f --- raising retirement age for judges proposed  dhaka, june 13 (bdnews24.com)an all-party parliamentary panel recommended raising the retirement age of lower court judges to 60 years from present 57. the sub-committee, formed by the parliamentary standing committee on law ministry, also recommended a pay hike for judges of the lower court. "after discussion, all members have agreed that the retirement age of the lower court judges should be 60 years," suranjit sengupta, the standing committee chairman, told bdnews24.com after a meeting on saturday. this is first parliamentary move to increase the retirement age of over 1,000 judges of the lower court. the five-member sub-committee was formed on june 7 with former law minister abdul matin khasru at its head. it submitted its recommendations to the main committee at its meeting on saturday. "they also favoured raising the judges' salaries considering the country's socio-economic conditions," abdul matin khasru told bdnews24.com. "we have only proposed the pay hike, the government will fix it as per the final recommendations of the standing committee," he said. state minister for law quamrul islam, bnp's salahuddin quader chowdhury, and awami league mps fazle noor taposh and nurul islam sunjon are the other members of the sub-committee. --- mobile-phone sets to get costlier  dhaka, june 11(bdnews24.com)mobile phones will be costlier if a m a muhith's proposal for a 25 percent duty on their value is passed in parliament. the existing duty is tk 300 for any mobile set irrespective of value. bdnews --- venezuela bans coke zero, cites "danger to health"  caracas thu jun 11, ( bdnews24.com/reuters) - the venezuelan government of us-critic president hugo chavez on wednesday ordered coca-cola co to withdraw its coke zero beverage from the south american nation, citing unspecified dangers to health. the decision follows a wave of nationalizations and increased scrutiny of businesses in south america's top oil exporter. health minister jesus mantilla said the zero-calorie coke zero should no longer be sold and stocks of the drink removed from store shelves while the government investigated its ingredients. "the product should be withdrawn from circulation to preserve the health of venezuelans," the minister said in comments reported by the government's news agency. coca cola said coke zero contains no harmful ingredients, but that it will stop production and remove the product from shelves during the ongoing investigation. "coca cola zero is made under the highest quality standards around the world and meets the sanitary requirements demanded by the laws of the bolivarian republic of venezuela," the company said in a joint statement with its local bottling company. despite chavez's anti-capitalist policies and rhetoric against consumerism, oil-exporting venezuela remains one of latin america's most americanized cultures, with us fast-food chains, shopping malls and baseball all highly popular. mantilla did not say what health risks coke zero, which contains artificial sweeteners, posed to the population. coke zero was launched in venezuela in april and coca-cola femsa, the mexico-based company that bottles coke products locally, said at the time it aimed to increase its market share for low calorie drinks by 200 percent. the bottler was plagued with labor problems last year in venezuela when former workers repeatedly blocked its plants, demanding back-pay. the government this year has seized a rice mill and pasta factory belonging to us food giant cargill and has threatened action against us drug company pfizer. chavez has also nationalized a group of oil service companies, including projects belonging to williams companies and exte --- tk 217.55 cr for youth and sports proposed  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)  the government has proposed tk 217.55 crore for the development of youth and sports for the 2009-2010 fiscal which is tk 67.45 crore less than the allocation of the 2008-09 fiscal. the amount of the 2008-09 allocation, however, decreased by tk 179 crore in the revised budget. finance minister ama muhith on thursday made the proposal in his budget speech in parliament. the finance minister said that the government would take all necessary initiatives to raise the current profile of the country's sports arena to an international standard and that they would like to see sports free from politics. they would take planned initiatives to extend infrastructure and training facilities. muhith also said he proposed an allocation of tk 217.55 crore, development and non-development combined, in next year's budget for the development of youth and sports. most of the money will be spent for the 2010 south asian games in dhaka as the bangladesh olympic association has sought tk 48 crore for hosting the meet. besides, the national sports council has also sought tk 28 crore to buy sports equipment as well as the renovation of different venues. apart from the sa games, the bangladesh football federation president kazi salahuddin had also earlier met the finance minister to seek at least tk 25 crore for youth development. in the budget speech, the finance minister said, "it is our electoral pledge to create a congenial atmosphere for the pursuit of culture across the country. we will provide financial assistance to those poor and insolvent people, who are dedicated to the pursuit of culture. we will set up public libraries everywhere to develop the reading habit of the youth and formulate an integrated policy for the supply of books to those libraries." bd --- official relieved in sunamganj by-polls  sunamganj, june 15 (bdnews24.com)a polls official was relieved of his duty on charges of irregularities as voters were casting their votes on monday to elect their mp in the sunamganj-4 by-election. abul khair, an assistant presiding officer on polling duty at pti government primary school in sunamganj town, was relieved of his responsibilities as there were allegations of irregularities in conducting his duties. mizanur rahman, the returning officer for the by-election there, said as a voter had complained against abul khair practising unfair means, he checked and found khair guilty and relieved him immediately. khair was being quizzed at the election office subsequently, rahman said. the seat became vacant on the death of jatiya party mp momotaj iqbal in april. polling which started at 8am is due to continue through to 4pm. "voter presence looks rather poor, but the polling is being conducted properly," sirajul islam, presiding officer, shologhar primary school, sunamganj, told bdnews24.com in the morning. candidates contending for the seat include the ruling awami league-led grand alliance's matiur rahman, bnp-led four-party alliance's fazlul haque aspia and the national people's party's krishak mohammad sadek. a total 230,835 voters are registered to cast their ballots at 105 polling stations throughout the constituency. bdnews --- ambitious budget has eye on recession  dhaka, june 11 (bdnedws24.com)finance minister a m a muhith on thursday rolled out an extensive tk 1,13,819 crore budget aiming to boost domestic spending and rev up recession-hit growth, forecast to be sliding toward a seven-year low of 5.5 percent. the annual outlay for 2009-10 fiscal year starting on july 1 saw a 15 percent rise on the previous year to turn the wheel on an economy in virtual recession. accent was put on raising investment, boosting agriculture, enhancing rural and industrial development, and widening the social safety net for the poor. the annual development programme is ambitious, at tk 30,500 crore, up by 32.6 percent from the outgoing one, which was revised to tk 23,000 crore. muhith proposed an unprecedented three-year amnesty to draw black money into the mainstream economy. "no questions will be asked" on source of funds provided a flat-rate 10 percent tax is paid and the money is invested in one of 42 sectors from july 1, 2009 to june 30 2012, the minister said. it also focused on much-needed improvement of collapsing infrastructure and transport links and scaling up power generation. to ride out the global recession impacts, the minister unveiled a new stimulus package worth tk 4993 crore for the last quarter of current fiscal to help deal with the impact of global financial meltdown on the readymade garment and other export-focused sectors. but the apparel exporters who cried for government support to face "unprecedented" challenges got no allocation of any additional incentives under the package. "the global recession impacted our economy on three fronts: exports, imports and remittances," muhith said. "except for ready-made garments and the domestic textile sector, exports of all other commodities have declined compared to the previous year," he said. "we will not let the export industry, which is currently undergoing a setback, get sick," he said. the first budget of the awami league-led government, presented in absence of opposition parties in parliament over an ongoing seating dispute, will carry an overall deficit of tk 34,358 crore, assuming revenues of tk 79,461crore taka. muhith proposed to meet the deficit with loans of tk 20,555 crore from internal sources and another tk 13,803 crore from foreign aid. growth is targeted at just 5.5 percent. and with falling commodity and fuel prices, along with favourable production conditions, annual average inflation would come down to 6.5 percent from 7 percent, he predicted. it allocates tk 2100 crore to finance public-private partnership (ppp)projects tied up with private equities to invest in disintegrating roads and power networksand tk 3,600 crore in subsidies to agriculture, which contributes 21 percent of gdp. muhith sought to help senior citizens and pensioners with a reduced direct tax burden but said the much-abused tax holidays will be replaced with low rates. muhith proposed to set up a new court styled national tax tribunal and listed plans to make more people pay. he also proposed acceptance of undisclosed money "without any question" for an unprecedented term of three years, from july 1 to june 30, 2012, provided that a payment of 10 percent tax is made for stocks, start-ups in textiles, garments, leather, drugs, bmre and physical infrastructure. public employees will get enhanced pay and perks from next month in line with the pay commission recommendations. the finance minister has sought to make basic industrial raw materials cheaper, with proposals to reduce duty rate from seven percent to five percent. tk. 4,285 crore had been allocated in the budget of 2008-09 fiscal year for subsidy for fertiliser and other agricultural inputs to help the farmers. tk 21,367 crore has been allocated for education and technology and health sectors together, which is 19 percent of the total budget. mobile-phone sets, airconditioners and personal cars, among others, will get pricier as the budget has proposed revising the tariff structure. bd --- black money amnesty defies al pledge:tib  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)the government's proposal to allow legalising of black money is against its election pledge, said transparency international bangladesh (tib) in a post-budget reaction on friday. in a press release, tib's executive director dr iftekharuzzaman said it was incompatible with good governance and prevention of corruption, the campaign promises of the ruling party. in an unprecedented measure, finance minister ama muhith proposed "acceptance of undisclosed money without any question during the period from july 1 to june 30 , 2012 provided that 10 percent tax is paid and it is invested in certain new industries such as physical infrastructure facilities and shares of companies listed on the stock exchange. "awami league said in its election pledge that stern action will be taken against the owners of black money but its first budget will encourage them to evade tax," he said. "on the one hand the government has pledged to increase revenue earning but on the other it is encouraging tax evasion. "this is a contradictory position," he added however, tib welcomed the emphasis on public-private partnership in the proposed budget. reflection of election pledges to establish good governance and curb corruption in the budget speech was encouraging, it said. b --- who is on course for world cup finals?  june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the final line-up for next year's world cup in south africa will not be known until november, but here is the picture so far: already qualified japan became the first country, apart from hosts south africa, to book their place in the finals when they defeated uzbekistan 1-0 on saturday and were quickly followed by fellow asian qualifiers south korea and australia. south korea qualified for their seventh successive finals while australia made it through the asian group for the first time since transferring from oceania. netherlands became the first european team to seal their place when they beat iceland 2-1 in reykjaviktheir sixth successive victory in group nine. they followed that with a 2-0 defeat of norway on wednesday. they will be among the strong challengers from the european group. the big contenders european champions spain, looking one of the favourites for 2010, are top of group five having won all their six matches so far. world champions italy are top of european group eight, a point ahead of ireland. but france, world champions in 1998, runners-up in 2006 and building a new team for next year, are eight points behind group seven leaders serbiaalbeit with two matches in hand. england won their seventh successive group six qualifier with a 6-0 rout of andorra on wednesday. they now need only three points from their last three games to qualify. three-times world champions germany have won five and drawn one in group four and should qualify but guus hiddink's russia kept them under pressure by beating finland on wednesday, to move only one point behind the germans. after some earlier bad performances, brazil moved top of the single south american group with a 4-0 win over uruguay on saturday followed by defeating their closest rivals paraguay on wednesday. but argentina, now coached by diego maradona, prompted new anxiety about their chances by losing 2-0 to ecuador at altitude this week. argentina stay in fourth place, which would give them a berth in south africa but are only two points ahead of ecuador. paraguay dropped to third place after the brazil defeat, below chile who crushed bolivia 4-0. nations who risk elimination with the european and south american qualifying groups all at approximately the halfway stage, most of the traditional football powers are well on course to qualify. however portugal, semi-finalists in germany in 2006 and bidding to reach their sixth successive major tournament including the last three european championships, are in danger of failing, despite their last-minute win over albania last saturday. portugal are third in group one behind denmark and hungary and will need a big improvement in form over the second half of the campaign to stand any chance of qualifying. turkey, semi-finalists in 2002 but eliminated in the playoffs for 2006, are struggling in group five behind european champions spain and bosnia. their chances of making the finals do not look good. poland, co-hosts of euro 2012, are trailing slovakia and northern ireland in third place in group three and need a win over the latter in september to revive their chances. the czechs, european champions in 1976 and runners-up in 1996, are fourth and look too far behind to qualify. mexico, once a regular qualifier from the concacaf (north and central american zone) are in danger of missing out after losing to el salvador and scraping a victory over lowly trinidad & tobago. they remain in fourth place, not good enough to guarantee an automatic place in the world cup finals. asian zone apart from japan, australia and south korea who have already qualified, one automatic place and two playoff slots are still open. north korea missed out on their chance of securing their first appearance since 1966 when they were held to a 0-0 draw by iran but saudi arabia lost the chance of an easy passage to the finals by securing only a goalless draw with south korea on wednesday. that means they must fight north korea for an automatic place in south africa when the two sides meet next week. iran are still in contention after beating united arab emirates. there are two playoff places from this zone. african zone the final african qualifiers have just started with only one or two matches played. more are scheduled later this month. the five group winners will qualify for the finals and are likely to come from morocco, togo or cameroon (group a); nigeria or tunisia (group b); african champions egypt or algeria (group c); ghana or mali (group d) and probably ivory coast from group e. major contenders cameroon and morocco, who are both in the same group, need a sharp improvement after losing their opening games and drawing with each other in their second. unheralded gabon top their group with two successive wins and are emerging as surprise contenders after following up their shock opening win over morocco with a 3-0 victory against togo on saturday. many africans playing for top european clubs, such as didier drogba (ivory coast and chelsea), kolo toure (ivory coast and arsenal), michael essien (ghana and chelsea), seydou keita (mali and barcelona), have their eyes on the finals and their presence in south africa would certainly attract more african fans. concacaf costa rica top the concacaf zone after wins over the united states and trinidad & tobago, although the u.s. remain on course in second place after beating honduras. mexico are struggling in fourth place in the six-team group. oceania new zealand, whose one previous appearance was in spain in 1982, are two matches away from a place after winning the first oceania zone competition since australia left to join the more competitive asian competition. new zealand will play off with an asian team over two legs with the winners taking a place in the finals --- global pc makers vying for `green' crown  san francisco, jun 14 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - personal computer makers are increasingly prioritizing "green" strategies, creating a pivotal point of competition for customers that are becoming more attuned to their financial -- and societal -- benefits. analysts say going green has become a business plan unto itself for the industry's heavyweights: a way to stand apart from rivals, win over a growing segment of environmentally conscious consumers, and shore up branding worldwide. the three major us computer vendors -- hewlett-packard co, dell inc, and apple inc -- argue that customers glean real benefits, for example lower power consumption in green-certified display screens. "it's really a green arms race, in which they're trying to one up each other," said john spooner, an analyst with technology business research. "the good news is they're all working in this direction and that's going to benefit themselves, their customers and the environment." analysts point to certain efforts -- such as dell's recycling program, apple's moves to remove toxic raw materials, and hp's actions around packaging -- as areas of success. but the it industry still accounts for an estimated 2 percent of global emissions of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. consumers might have trouble picking out just who among the pc makers are making the right moves: dell says it aims to become the "greenest technology company on earth"; apple lays claims to the "greenest family of notebooks"; and hp stresses it has a long tradition of environmentalism as well as the market size to effect change. tbr recently ranked dell no. 1 out of 40 technology companies on corporate sustainability. but a recent greenpeace report ranked apple best among the major pc makers. while there are differences between the three in areas such as materials, pc power usage and recycling and packaging, analysts and environmental groups say, the green agenda is profiting from the competition between them. campaigns by interest groups like greenpeace to praise or tweak pc makers have been particularly effective. "companies are realizing that consumers do use these environmental considerations as tiebreakers. it does help differentiate their products," forrester's sally cohen said. around 70 percent of companies surveyed in a recent report by forrester research cited product differentiation -- the desire to stand out -- as a business driver for their environmental strategies. "it has struck a chord with consumers, businesses, stakeholders and ngos," said eric lowitt, a research fellow at accenture. in interviews, dell and hp -- while each asserting leadership -- downplayed talk of competition. they pointed out that any good sustainability strategy must be comprehensive, and span the company, right down to its supply chain. some analysts say what may be more important than companies' actual green initiatives -- often highly technical -- is their ability to communicate them to the market. tod arbogast, dell's director of sustainable business, said there is actually some collaboration around green initiatives. "i don't think we've reached the tipping point yet, i think we'll continue as an industry to innovate, challenge one another to go further. faster on these efforts," he said. bonnie nixon, hp's director of sustainability, said green practices should be integrated throughout the company. hp's "commitment has really been there, certainly through the 90's and the fact that society is really focusing on green right now is great. we're in an industry that can truly demonstrate" environmental leadership, she said --- zaheer leads champions india to easy win  nottingham, england, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india seamer zaheer khan took four for 19 to set up a comfortable eight-wicket victory over ireland in the final group match of the twenty20 world cup on wednesday. both teams had already qualified for the second round of the tournament. left-arm swing bowler zaheer, continuing his recovery from a shoulder injury, helped restrict ireland to just 112 for eight after the match was was reduced to 18-overs a side following a rain delay. "it feels great playing after a long time, this is the second game for me, and to take a few wickets at any level is definitely boost to the confidence," zaheer told reporters. man-of-the-match zaheer was well supported by spinner pragyan ojha, who completed figures of two for 18 from four overs. irish all-rounder andrew white top-scored with 29 but most of his team-mates struggled against an attack spearheaded by zaheer. he bowled jeremy bray, knocking two stumps out of the ground, had ireland captain william porterfield and andre botha caught at slip in the same over and dismissed white caught behind. rohit sharma (52 not out) and gautam gambhir (37) put on 77 for the first wicket for defending champions india who reached 113 for two with 15 deliveries remaining under the trent bridge floodlights. india play west indies in their first super eights match on friday and ireland face new zealand on thursday --- defence spending up  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)the government has raised military spending to tk 8,382 crore in the proposed budget. finance minister ama muhith, in his budget speech on thursday, also proposed to raise it from tk 7,967 crore in the current fiscal to tk 8,196 crore in the revised budget for fy 2009-10. he told parliament that the government was set to keep the armed forces "above all controversy." "currently, we do not have any codified defence policy," muhith said and added that they would follow a participatory approach in formulating a national defence policy. the finance minister also stressed reinforcing diplomatic initiatives along with restructuring the defence system to ensure national security. --- who on verge of declaring h1n1 flu pandemic  geneva , jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the world health organization (who) is on the verge of declaring the first influenza pandemic in more than 40 years, but wants to ensure countries are well prepared to prevent a panic, its top flu expert said on tuesday. keiji fukuda, acting who assistant director-general, voiced concern at the sustained spread of the new h1n1 strain -- including more than 1,000 cases in australia -- following major outbreaks in north america, where it emerged in april. confirmed community spread in a second region beyond north america would trigger moving to phase 6 -- signifying a full-blown pandemic -- from the current phase 5 on the who's 6-level pandemic alert scale. "the situation has really evolved a lot over the past several days. we are getting really very close to knowing that we are in a pandemic situation, or i think, declaring that we are in a pandemic situation," fukuda told a teleconference. fukuda said a move to phase 6 would reflect the geographic spread of the new disease. "it does not mean that the severity of the situation has increased or that people are getting seriously sick at higher numbers or higher rates than they are right now," he said. a decision to declare a pandemic involved more than simply making an announcement, he said. the united nations agency had to ensure that countries were able to deal with the new situation and also handle any public reaction. "one of the critical issues is that we do not want people to 'over-panic' if they hear that we are in a pandemic situation. that they understand, for example, that the current assessment of the situation is that this is a moderate level," fukuda said. the who and its 193 member states are working hard to prepare for a pandemic, for instance developing vaccines and building up supplies of anti-viral drugs, he said. the disease, which has infected over 26,500 people in 73 countries, with 140 deaths, has been most severe in mexico, which has reported the highest number of fatalities, more than 100. these include infections in otherwise healthy young people. pressure on hospitals a very real danger after declaring a pandemic was that hospitals could be overwhelmed by people seeking help when they did not really need it, while other patients requiring emergency treatment risked being neglected, according to fukuda. "in earlier pandemics, in earlier outbreaks, we have often seen that people who are in the category of being worried but who are not particularly sick, have overrun hospitals," he said. since the new flu strain first appeared, many people have stopped eating pork, pigs have been culled in some countries, trade bans on meat imposed, travelers quarantined, and some countries have discussed closing borders. "these are the kinds of potential adverse effects that you can have if you go out without making sure people understand the situation as well as possible," fukuda said. combining human, avian and swine viruses, the new strain has been dubbed 'swine flu', although scientists say this is misleading and stress there is no risk from eating pig meat. the world is better prepared but also more vulnerable to the adverse effects of a flu pandemic since the last one occurred in 1968, due to the speed and volume of international travel. an h3n2 virus caused an estimated 1-4 million deaths at the time, and became known as hong kong flu. but fukuda said the who would not name the new disease after a country or animal to avoid misleading stigmas. he voiced concern that canadian inuits had suffered disproportionately in the current outbreak, often needing hospitalization. it was not clear if this was due to higher levels of underlying chronic disease, genetics or poverty. "inuit populations were very severely hit in some of the earlier pandemics. this is why these reports raise such concerns to us," he  --- ancient mass grave found on olympics site  london, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an ancient burial pit containing 45 severed skulls, that could be a mass war grave dating back to roman times, has been found under a road being built for the 2012 british olympics. archaeologists, who have only just begun excavating the site, say they do not yet know who the bones might belong to. "we think that these dismembered bodies are likely to be native iron age britons. the question is -- how did they die and who killed them," said dig head, david score, of oxford archaeology. "were they fighting amongst themselves? were they executed by the romans? did they die in a battle with the romans? "the exciting scenario for us possibly is that there were skirmishes with the invading romans and that's how they ended up chopped up in a pit," he told reuters. when the main roman invasion force landed in britain in ad 43, claudius' legions moved swiftly through western england to subdue fierce celtic tribes. the skulls and other bones were unearthed at a place called ridgeway hill, on the construction site of a new major relief road to weymouth, on the dorset coast in southwest england. the seaside town -- in the heart of thomas hardy country -- is to host sailing events for the london olympics. the grave site is close to maiden castle -- europe's largest iron age hill fort where local tribes are said to have staged a last stand against the roman legions after the invasion. some historians believe the romans sacked the site, butchering its population including women and children, before burning it to the ground. score said they had counted 45 skulls so far in the 6-meter wide pit, together with a tangle of torsos, arms and legs, more could be found in the coming weeks. most of the skulls were those of young men, supporting the theory they could have been killed in battle or executed en masse. "one of the things that we will be looking for is do they have sword cut marks on the bones, and how were the heads dismembered: prior to or after death in an act of victory," score said. archaeologists say they could also be roman citizens or indigenous people who had died through disease or disaster. few artifacts have so far been found with the bones, though pottery shards dating to the late iron age and early roman period have been found scattered around the pit. "it is rare to find a burial site like this one," score said. "there are lots of different types of burial where skeletons may be aligned along a compass axis or in a crouched position, but to find something like this is just incredible." --- novartis hopeful of h1n1 flu vaccine by autumn  zurich, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - novartis ag expects a vaccine for the h1n1 virus, declared responsible on thursday for the 21st century's first flu pandemic, to be available by the autumn after producing the first batch ahead of schedule. the swiss drugmaker said on friday it would start clinical trials on the vaccine next month, a day after the world health organisation declared a pandemic and called on governments to prepare for a long-term battle against the virus. novartis, sanofi-aventis, glaxosmithkline and solvay all obtained the influenza a (h1n1) seed virus in recent weeks, aiming to have a vaccine ready ahead of the flu season in the northern hemisphere. novartis said in a statement first results with the h1n1 wild type strain showed it was quicker to make the vaccine through cell-based than through egg-based production. "novartis has successfully completed the production of the first batch of influenza a (h1n1) vaccine, weeks ahead of expectations," it said. a spokesman for the firm said he was unsure if any other company had completed the first cycle of the production process, and said novartis should have the vaccine ready in september or october. it hoped to be able to produce millions of doses per week. wayne pisano, head of vaccines at sanofi-aventis, the world's largest flu vaccine supplier, said on thursday his company would "produce the largest number of doses of vaccine in the shortest time frame", though it would be another four months before the first supply of bulk concentrate was ready. by 0815 gmt, shares in novartis had risen 3.1 percent to 44.46 swiss francs, while the european pharmaceuticals sector was trading 2.2 percent higher. the h1n1 strain has spread widely, with 28,774 infections confirmed in 74 countries to date, including 144 deaths, according to the who's latest tally. although the strain seems mild at present, health officials are worried it might return in a more virulent form in the northern hemisphere winter. cell-based technology while commercial production of vaccines usually depends on how easily a virus strain grows in chicken eggs, novartis said its cell-based technology means it can produce a vaccine without having to adapt the virus strain to grow in eggs. "this advance has cut weeks off the time required to begin vaccine production," novartis said, adding that its cell-based facility in germany should be able to produce millions of doses each week. h1n1 vaccines must be tested first on ferrets and then on humans in clinical trials before regulatory approval is granted. who director-general margaret chan said on thursday different regulatory authorities needed to work together to speed registration of a safe h1n1 flu vaccine. novartis said more than 30 governments have made requests to supply them with vaccine ingredients, which are a combination of pre-existing pandemic vaccine supply agreements and new requests for vaccines across all production platforms including egg-based manufacturing. the question of how the vaccine would be dispensed was still open, the novartis spokesman said. "this will depend on government programmes and what health authorities, the who and others say on how they want to make it available," he  --- india reliance industries shares fall 7 pct on gas supply ruling  mumbai, mon jun 15, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the bombay high court directed reliance industries to supply gas to a former group firm at about half the government-approved price, sending its shares sliding more than 7 percent. the bombay high court on monday asked reliance to supply 28 million metric cubic metres a day for 17 years at $2.34 per million metric british thermal unit to reliance natural resources, mahesh jethmalani, a lawyer for reliance natural, said. on jan. 30, the court had issued an interim order saying reliance industries was allowed to sell gas at government- approved price of $4.2 per million metric british thermal units from its kg-d6 block in the krishna godavari basin, off eastern india. reliance industries, india's biggest listed conglomerate, is controlled by billionaire mukesh ambani while reliance natural, engaged in sourcing, supply and transportation of gas, coal and liquid fuels, is headed by estranged younger brother anil ambani. the two firms were contesting details in a supply contract that was originally agreed when the reliance empire split in 2005. "within one month's time we have to enter into an agreement," jethmalani said. a reliance industries spokesman said the company would comment only after studying the judgment. "reliance industries will have to supply gas at a rate lower than the rate fixed by the government. they are going to incur a lower profit for that much amount," said d.d. sharma, vice president at anand rathi securities. shares in reliance industries, which has a market value of $78 billion, were down 6.8 percent at 2,195.80 rupees by 0752 gmt, having fallen as much as 7.4 percent earlier. it dragged the main mumbai index down 1.7 percent. prayesh jain, an analyst with india infoline, said the ruling would have a negative impact of around 120 rupees per share for reliance industries. "with this information, sentiment has become weak for reliance (industries ) right now." shares in reliance natural resources were up 25.1 percent at 109.20 rupees. the stock was the index's mostly heavily traded by volume. the judgment gains importance as it arrives only two months after reliance industries started pumping natural gas from its massive deep-sea field, which at full throttle will nearly double india's gas output. the company started pumping 2.5 mmscmd gas from the field in early april, and is expected to reach a peak production of 80 mmscmd before december. reliance industries agreed to sell 11 mmscmd gas from the kg basin to power companies in late april and 15 mmscmd to fertilizer companies in late march. reliance industries has a 90 percent interest in the block, while canada's niko resources holds the  --- dipu moni for dialogue with india on dam  chandpur, june 13 (bdnews24.com)  foreign minister dipu moni said if tipaimukh dam, or any similar structure, threatens bangladeshi interests, the matter will be solved by discussion with india. "the indian government has assured us that they will in no way act to harm bangladesh," she told bdnews24.com in chandpur on saturday. she said plans had begun on the indian during the past rule of the bnp-led government. "but they did not object to it at that time," she said. saying that the prposed budget for 2009-10 is a "pro-people one", she expressed hope for greater development. she also said international standards, rule of law and human rights will be maintained in the trial of war criminals. bdnews2 --- envoy to 'trace war crimes footage'  kamran reza chowdhury bdnews24.com senior correspondent dhaka, june 09 (bdnews24.com)the new bangladeshi high commissioner to the uk has said one of his main tasks will be to help the government get documentary evidence on 1971 war crimes from the british authorities. "britain provided all possible assistance for bangladesh's independence in 1971," sayeedur rahman khan, who joins his new office on wednesday, told bdnews24.com in an interview. "so we expect they will provide us with the available evidence on war crimes committed by the anti-liberation forces for fair and transparent trial to which the government is committed," he said. foreign minister dipu moni during a trip to london in may talked to her british counterpart david miliband and sought documentary support from his country. "as a nation we are grateful not only to the british government but also to its people and media for their active support during our war of independence in 1971," said khan. "in fact, london became the centre of overseas activities supporting our struggle for independence." "so, i feel extremely happy to go to london to represent bangladesh as high commissioner," he said. many british newspapers and television channels captured killings of civilians, by the pakistan army and its local collaborators in 1971, on film and footage. khan, a former vice chancellor of rajshahi university, spoke of his challenges as high commissioner since he had little prior experience in diplomacy. "i am a teacher and i spent about 40 years in teaching and research. in that context this is a new avenue in my career." "but i believe, if one is committed, sincere and honest in his or her duties, to a cause, he or she must succeed," he said. "i have been studying and trying to learn the details of the diplomatic activities which i shall have to undertake." "the bilateral relations between the uk and bangladesh are excellent, and i will definitely try to strengthen that relationship even further," said khan. he said he would work to guarantee uninterrupted flow of aid flow to bangladesh. "the uk is the largest bilateral donor to bangladesh for development in many sectors. "the ongoing global economic recession has hit britain and other partners. but i am sure bangladesh will not be deprived of getting development assistance from britain," he said. "i will try my best to convince the british government to continue the assistance they normally provide." the professor said he would also look after the interests of bangladesh exporters. "i will try to see that export of bangladeshi goods to the uk to remains unaffected." khan said he would try to solve the problems of the huge number of british bangladeshis working in the uk curry industry. he said the proposed catering institute in sylhet should start functioning immediately. "i will also see that the industry is not affected due to the shortage of skilled or semi-skilled workers in the sector." "many other such institutes can be established in the country in order to meet the need for skilled human resources in the curry industry. "such institutes will also help curry restaurant workers learncommunicate with customersin the uk". "of course i will give a patient hearing to all the problems facing the british bangladeshi community in the uk and try to play my part to resolve them gradually," he said. --- us backs probe of border guard deaths  dhaka, june 14 (bdnews24.com)a senior us official has urged bangladesh to investigate the deaths of border guards who have died in custody since the bloody bdr mutiny in february. visiting us assistant secretary of state robert o blake said proper investigation into the deaths would provide the basis for "increased cooperation with bangladesh rifles" as they reconstitute themselves after the mutiny. "there has been a serious investigation into what occurred in the bangladeshi rifles. but we also discussed the deaths in custody and we talked about how it is important for the government to investigate those, to carry out a credible investigation," said blake. a visiting european union delegation last week also urged the government to investigate the deaths of at least 20 bdr personnel who have died in custody since the feb 25-26 mutiny in which over 50 army officers were killed. authorities have reported the custodial deaths as 'suicides', or being caused by 'illnesses' including 'heart attacks'. the government has said it would investigate the deaths after local media and international rights groups highlighted the issue. the visiting us official also stressed the need for investigation into 'extra-judicial killings'. the awami league government, that took over from a two-year military-backed caretaker regime in january, has received criticism recently for what appears to be a continuation of 'crossfire' killings by security forces in the country. "in all our discussions with our friends in the government of bangladesh, we emphasised the importance for investigating extra-judicial killings and bringing those responsible for the killings to justice," said blake. blake, assistant secretary for south and central asian affairs, met foreign minister dipu moni and home minister sahara khatun on sunday morning and was scheduled to meet prime minister sheikh hasina in the evening. this is blake's first visit to bangladesh since succeeding richard a boucher in may. --- muhith admits budget execution 'a challenge'  dhaka, june 12 (bdnews24.com)finance minister abul maal abdul muhith has said the government faces a challenge to implement its proposed budget for the coming year. "it will be a bigger challenge to implement the budget than finance it. our government has taken the challenge," he told reporters at a post-budget news briefing at national economic council auditorium in the capital on friday. muhith said proper mobilisation and utilisation of revenue and resources was tougher than it appeared on paper. he added that the proposed budget had not burdened the people with taxes. agriculture minister motia chowdhury, planning minister a k khandaker and information minister abul kalam azad were also present. besides the finance minister, they also took questions from reporters. agriculture minister motia chowdhury said the proposed national service scheme, to create jobs for youth, would not be politicised. the finance minister placed the tk 1,13,819 crore maiden budget of the awami league-led grand alliance government on thursday in parliament amid a boycott by opposition parties over a seating arrangement row. b --- pakistan widens offensive; us triples aid  bannu, pakistan, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistani forces stepped up attacks on militants across the northwest on friday as the us house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for the next five years. security forces have made progress in more than a month of fighting against taliban militants in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad, and in recent days have begun attacks in several other parts of the region. rising islamist violence has raised fears for pakistan's stability and for the safety of its nuclear arsenal but the offensive in swat has reassured the united states about its commitment to the global campaign against militancy. pakistan is a vital security ally for the united states as it struggles to stabilise neighbouring afghanistan and defeat al qaeda. u.s. officials said on thursday insurgent violence in afghanistan had accelerated sharply alongside the arrival of new u.s. troops, reaching its highest level since 2001. u.s. central intelligence agency director leon panetta said he believed al qaeda leader osama bin laden was hiding in pakistan and he hoped joint operations with pakistani forces would find him. police in bannu, a town in north west frontier province adjacent to the north waziristan militant stronghold on the afghan border, said the military had fired artillery through the night at militant positions in the jani kheil area. "since sunrise, helicopter gunships have also being used in the attack. there have been reports of casualties on the militant side but we aren't sure how many," police official sami ullah told reuters. more than 130 militants have been killed in the fighting near bannu this week up to thursday, according to military officers and a senior civilian official in the area. independent casualty estimates for the fighting in bannu and other parts of the northwest are not available. bottled up gunship helicopters also attacked militants in the bajaur and mohmand regions on the afghan border, both to the north of the city of peshawar, military officials and residents said. there has also been fighting this week in the south waziristan and orakzai ethnic pashtun tribal regions. the military's chief spokesman was not available for comment but an analyst said the various air strikes appeared aimed at keeping militants bottled up. "the operation in swat has entered its final stages and troops are engaging militants elsewhere to stop them going to swat and to disrupt their network," said mahmood shah, a former chief of security in the pashtun tribal areas. the militants have responded to the offensive in swat with a series of bomb attacks, including a suicide truck-bomb blast at a prominent hotel in peshwar on tuesday which killed nine people including two foreign u.n. workers. a suicide bomber attacked police on the outskirts of peshawar on thursday evening, killing one man and wounding 14. later, militants opened fire in different parts of peshawar, killing two people, police said. the u.s. house of representatives approved tripling aid to pakistan to about $1.5 billion a year for the next five years in a key part of a strategy to combat extremism with economic and social development. the bill includes military aid with conditions that require the obama administration to certify that pakistan remains committed to fighting terrorist groups -- a provision that pakistan had criticised. the funding includes money for schools, the judicial system, parliament and law enforcement agencies. "the current conditions in pakistan underline the importance of moving urgently on this legislation," said democratic representative chris van hollen. "this is the time to send a signal and initiate a policy of economic development in these difficult regions," he added. the fighting in swat and other parts of the northwest has displaced about 2.5 million people and aid officials have appealed to donors to step up their help. the united nations is seeking $543 million but has received only $138 million. nine aid agencies said this week they would be forced to stop or cut back supplies of aid unless the funding crisis was resolved. --- arms dealers revel in somali war business  mogadishu, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - sitting on a mat at home between taking orders for arms on his two mobile phones, osman bare gives thanks for the riches flowing from somalia's war. "i have only been in the weapon business five years, but i have erected three villas. i have also opened shops for my two wives," said the 40-year-old, one of about 400 somali men operating in mogadishu's main weapons market. "peace means bankruptcy for us." despite a un arms embargo on somalia, the horn of africa nation is awash with weaponry from all over the world that has fueled one of africa's longest-running conflicts. in the latest cycle of civil war, militant islamists have been fighting the somali government for the last two years and 18,000 civilians have been killed in the crossfire. weapons are captured, sold and recycled constantly between both sides, experts say. many arms have come from ethiopian soldiers who intervened in somalia between 2006 and early 2009. african union peacekeepers have been accused of trafficking arms, and regional bodies say eritrea -- among others -- is funneling weapons toward the rebels. weapons are also said to pour across the porous borders of kenya, djibouti and ethiopia, arriving by plane and through seas infested by pirates who are themselves armed to the teeth. the mogadishu arms market is just one part of an illicit global arms bazaar. according to geneva-based research body small arms survey, there are at least 640 million firearms in the world, one for every 10 people on the planet. only a third of these are in the hands of armies or law enforcement agencies, the rest dispersed among non-state militia groups or the general population. dealers like bare say the main irtogte market, within the sprawling bakara commercial area of mogadishu, is holding its largest stock ever, and gunrunners are rolling in money. the risks of being robbed, cheated or shot are high, however, and prices fluctuate greatly. they are at a low right now due to the abundance of supply. "the good thing is that our goods are not perishable," bare said. "we get a lot of cash, but we are always in terror." dealers say they can be arrested, or even beheaded by the islamists, if caught outside the market. "but inside our market, we are cocks. there are hundreds of retailers and wholesalers and each has four well-armed guards." big price range he said masked islamists once picked him up, blindfolded him and took him to a well-known execution house when he was found carrying a us m16 rifle ordered by a pirate. as he was being beaten by gun-butt, a friend with good contacts in the al shabaab insurgent movement came and rescued him. "the government is better than islamists -- they do not kill people. they take your property and jail you only for few days," bare said. while islamists come to the market for purchases, traders said, arms are delivered to government and other buyers. "we dismantle weapons and then secretly take them to anyone who needs to buy." with the exception of pistols from yemen, north korean ak-47s, and hand-grenades from government supplies, most arms are second-hand, the dealers said. one of the cheapest items is an indian ak-47, at $140 each, but fighters disparage its poor quality compared to the heat-resistant north korean version ($600) and the light russian one ($400). at the top of the range of light weapons, the most expensive pistol, russian-made, goes for $1,000. hand-grenades go for $25 each, landmines $100. there is no shortage of sources for such weapons. according to a 2006 us congressional report, about 70 nations produce small arms and light weapons. most weapons are legally manufactured in relatively large factories, but many are diverted from their intended destination using false paperwork, according to weapons trade monitors. in mogadishu, the arms-dealers are not the only ones benefiting from war. at $15 for each grave he digs, cemetery worker ali osman is in the money every time the death toll goes up. "sometimes i dig around 20 graves and stay here till evening," osman told reuters, while burying a baby. somali bankers say the more the fighting, the more cash that arrives by wire transfers. "last month has been very nice to us," said one banker, referring to the flare-up in mogadishu. the war business also benefits sellers of iron sheets -- they are cheaper than wood for coffins. garment dealers also have a brisk trade in shrouds. "rolls of this material are bought when people die like flies," shopkeeper mohamed abdi said. "but i cannot say i am pleased with death -- nature works this way. --- prices up, prices down  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)private cars, air-conditioners, refrigerators, mobile phones, newspapers, powdered milk and an array of other goods will be more costly if finance minister ama muhith has his way. imported ceramic products, particle board, hardboard, plywood, mosquito coil, imitation jewellery, tooth brushes, biscuits, dry cell batteries, liquid glucose, dextrose, corrugated cardboard, bottle caps, bathroom fixtures and high-end electric lighting and light fittings will also be pricier on the back of raised duty. solar panels, energy saving bulbs, imported books, milk products, hybrid cars, taxi cabs, imported ships, basic raw materials may be cheaper on proposed cuts in import duty. bdnew --- singapore group in talks to buy newcastle  london, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - english premier league club newcastle united are the subject of a possible takeover bid from singapore-based investment group the profitable group, according to press reports. the investment group has contacted adviser seymour pierce to conduct the sale, the financial times said. former liverpool midfielder steve mcmahon is on the board of profitable, which told the newcastle evening chronicle that it had spoken to newcastle united owner mike ashley and was putting together a plan. ashley officially put the recently relegated club up for sale on monday for 100 million pounds ($160.9 million) [id:nsp490692]. ($1=.6215 pound --- us consumers' mood strongest in 9 months  new york, fri jun 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us consumer confidence rose to a nine-month high in june but failed again to surpass its level of september 2008, when the spectacular failure of lehman brothers sent the world economy into a tailspin, a survey showed on friday. the reuters/university of michigan surveys of consumers said its preliminary index of confidence for june rose to 69.0 from may's 68.7. that was slightly below economists' expectations of 69.5, according to a reuters poll. worryingly, the report's gauges of inflation expectations rose to their highest in months, creating concern for the federal reserve, which has pumped money into the financial system to spur recovery from the worst recession in decades. for the third month now the overall consumer sentiment reading was at its highest since the lehman debacle last september, which caused severe strains in financial markets, while not breaking through that month's level of 70.3. indeed, the economic damage done by that episode is still being felt and may linger for a long time to come, consumers worry, overshadowing perceptions of economic recovery. "job and income uncertainty, however, remained high and constitute a significant barrier for completing planned purchases," the surveys of consumers said in its report. "the economic recovery was thought to be weaker than originally anticipated, leading consumers to expect a longer period of time before the recovery gets underway." reflecting ongoing worries, consumers' assessment of the 12-month economic outlook fell, with that gauge declining to 61 in june from 75 in may. their one-year inflation expectations rose to 3.1 percent in june -- the highest since october 2008 -- from may's 2.8 percent. the five-year inflation outlook rose to 3.1 percent in june from may's 2.9 percent. that was the highest in the long-term inflation expectations since february this  --- mousavi supporters plan rally in tehran  tehran, jun 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - supporters of iran's defeated presidential candidate plan a rally in tehran on monday to protest against the re-election of mahmoud ahmadinejad, which has sparked two days of violent demonstrations in the capital. former prime minister mirhossein mousavi has appealed to the islamic republic's top legislative body to annul friday's election result, in which hard-liner ahmadinejad took 63 percent of the vote, because of what he alleges were irregularities. ahmadinejad himself held a triumphant rally on sunday, attended by a cheering crowd of tens of thousands of people. it was not clear whether authorities would allow any demonstration by his opponents. the unrest that has rocked tehran and other cities since results were declared on saturday is the sharpest show of discontent against the islamic republic's leadership for years. the election result has disconcerted western powers trying to induce the world's fifth-biggest oil exporter to curb its nuclear program. us president barack obama had urged iran's leadership "to unclench its fist" for a new start in ties. pro-mousavi demonstrators threw stones at police at tehran university on sunday and also clashed with ahmadinejad supporters on a main street in the city that was littered with broken glass and fires. in the north of the capital, a stronghold of mousavi backers, riot police patrolled streets after midnight. rubbish burned in the street, some cars had their windows broken, and police blocked access to roads. mousavi's appeal in a statement on his website, mousavi said he had formally asked iran's legislative guardian council to cancel the election result. "i urge you, iranian nation, to continue your nationwide protests in a peaceful and legal way," he said. mousavi's supporters handed out leaflets calling for a rally in tehran on monday afternoon. after dusk some took to rooftops across the city calling out "allah akbar" (god is greatest), an echo of tactics by protesters in the 1979 islamic revolution. ahmadinejad appeared at his rally amid a sea of red, white and green iranian flags waved by supporters thronging tehran's vali-e asr square, some perched on rooftops or cars, to applaud his win. "some ... say the vote is disrupted, there has been a fraud. where are the irregularities in the election?" ahmadinejad said in a speech that the crowd punctuated with roars of approval. "some people want democracy only for their own sake. some want elections, freedom, a sound election. they recognize it only as long as the result favors them," he said. us vice president joe biden cast doubt on the election result but said washington was reserving its position for now. "it sure looks like the way they're suppressing speech, the way they're suppressing crowds, the way in which people are being treated, that there's some real doubt," he told nbc's "meet the press" when asked if ahmadinejad had won the vote. germany, one of iran's biggest trading partners and a negotiator in the west's nuclear talks with tehran, said it had summoned the iranian ambassador. "we are looking toward tehran with great concern at the moment. there are a lot of reports about electoral fraud," foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier told german zdf tv. an adviser to french president nicolas sarkozy said what was happening in iran was "clearly not good news for anyone, neither for the iranians nor for peace and stability in the world." iran's refusal to halt atomic work the west suspects is aimed at making bombs, a charge tehran denies, has sparked talk of possible us or israeli strikes on its nuclear sites --- us special operations leader takes afghan command  kabul, june 15 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a veteran commander of top-secret special operations takes charge of the nearly 90,000 us and nato troops in afghanistan on monday, promising to limit the civilian deaths that have cost western troops afghan support. general stanley mcchrystal arrived in afghanistan on sunday, a month after being named by president barack obama to succeed general david mckiernan, abruptly removed last month from command of a war u.s. officials say is not being won. "the measure of effectiveness will not be (the number of) enemy killed, it will be the number of afghans shielded from violence," nato quoted mcchrystal as saying in a statement. after his arrival, mcchrystal met afghan president hamid karzai, who pressed him to avoid civilian casualties, karzai's office said. civilian deaths by foreign troops while hunting the militants, nearly eight years on since the taliban's ouster, have angered many afghans and have been the main source of friction between karzai's government and the united states. it is an issue both sides have been stressing, especially since a u.s. air strike in may that the afghan government says killed 140 civilians, mostly children. washington acknowledges mistakes in that strike and says 20-35 civilians died along with about 60 people it believes were fighters. washington considers taliban-led insurgencies in afghanistan and neighbouring pakistan to be its main security threat, and has begun diverting tens of thousands of troops to afghanistan from iraq. mcchrystal takes command midway through a massive build-up of u.s. forces that will see their numbers more than double from 32,000 at the end of 2008 to an anticipated 68,000 by the end of this year. he also commands about 30,000 troops from other nato allies. u.s. forces say the number of insurgent attacks in afghanistan is at its highest since the militants were driven out of power in retaliation for shielding osama bin laden after the sept. 11 attacks on the united states. fighting is expected to intensify over the next months as more u.s. and nato troops deploy ahead of an august presidential election. mcchrystal's background has raised some eyebrows: for most of the last six years he led a cadre of super-secret u.s. special forces raiders in both iraq and afghanistan, tasked mainly with locating, capturing and assassinating insurgent leaders. much of his career is classified, and an official biography released by nato leaves out many details. but in an interview with the wall street journal this month, he said he had learned that targeted killings, like those he has carried out for much of his recent career, were not enough to defeat an insurgency. "since 9/11, i have watched as america tried to first put out this fire with a hammer, and it doesn't work," he said. "decapitation strategies don't work." "you're going to have to convince people, not kill them." --- voting starts in iran's presidential election  tehran, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranians began voting on friday in a closely-fought presidential election pitting conservative president mahmoud ahmadinejad against more moderate rivals seeking better ties with the west. voting started at 8 a.m. (11:30 p.m. edt) in the country of 70 million people. preliminary results are expected early on saturday. if no clear winner emerges from friday's vote, a run-off will be held on june 19 between the two front-runners. "voting for the 10th presidential election started throughout the country," state radio said, referring to the number of presidential polls held since the 1979 islamic revolution. four candidates are standing but ahmadinejad's strongest challenger appears to be the moderate mirhossein mousavi, whose supporters have paraded through tehran in their thousands to demonstrate their backing. --- 3-year 'black money amnesty', for home buyers too  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com)in an unprecedented measure, the government has proposed an extended three-year amnesty to draw 'black money' into the capital market, start-up industries and physical infrastructure. a "no questions asked" policy is also offered to home buyers in the new budget. finance minister ama muhith proposed "acceptance of undisclosed money without any question during the period from 1 july 2009 to 30 june 2012 provided that a payment of 10% tax is made and it is invested in certain new industries  physical infrastructure facilities and shares of listed companies of stock exchange." click here for details the new industries include start-ups in textiles, garments, leather, drugs, it enabled services and ship building. the infrastructure facilities include ports and container facilities, fly-overs and elevated roads, mono and underground railways, telecom sector except mobile phone, water and waste treatment plants and solar energy plant. 'money whitening' facilities have only ever been offered for months at a time by previous governments. in the lead up to the budget, analysts on the whole - as opposed to the business community - had been critical of such amnesties for tax dodgers, on both ethical and practical grounds. the finance minister in his budget speech said the facility was being given to boost investment, employment and to create more homeowners. "we would like to open up opportunities for employment for the common man and attain economic prosperity. there are many potential sectors of our economy where investments could carry forward our efforts for change," he said in his preamble to the proposed three-year amnesty. he also said housing was "a fundamental right of the people". "people invest their long saved money for buying flats or construction of own house, which they subsequently find difficult to explain to the income tax department," said muhith, in a somewhat finessed statement. "to address this housing problem without much pain i propose to accept the investment incurred for the purchase of flat or construction of houses without any question by paying a tax at a specific rate according to the measurement of the flat/house." --- real want villa but no deal yet, perez says  madrid, june 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - real madrid are interested in signing david villa but are yet to reach an agreement to buy the valencia striker, real president florentino perez said on tuesday. "i have spoken to (new valencia president) manuel llorente and we need time to see what the actual situation is at valencia and what they are going to do," perez said in an interview with telemadrid. "if they want to keep him i think that would be a fitting decision and one i would respect," he added. spanish sports daily marca reported on tuesday that a deal was in place under which real would sign villa for around 37 million euros ($51 million) --- keep details of huge transfer deals secret, says djokovic  halle, germany, june 13 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - huge transfer bids such as real madrid's world record 80 million pound offer for cristiano ronaldo should be kept secret to avoid adverse public reaction, leading tennis player novak djokovic said on friday. real madrid's world record offer for ronaldo, which has been accepted by his english club manchester united, was described by uefa president michel platini as "excessive" and "puzzling" in the current economic climate. "you can look at it from an athlete's perspective or someone who earns 2,000 euros a month," the 22-year-old djokovic told reuters during the halle tournament. "in this crisis this is not the best way to show off how much money (the club) is willing to offer. "it reflects on social life very quickly, psychologically. these are incredible amounts." "there is another way of doing this," djokovic added. "i am not saying he does or does not deserve it but the amount should not reach the media." djokovic, the world number four, has so far earned more than $12 million in prize money alone since turning pro in 2003 --- rampant england crush andorra to close on finals  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - england ended a near-perfect season on a high when they demolished a feeble andorra 6-0 at wembley on wednesday to take a huge step towards next year's world cup finals. two goals each from wayne rooney and substitute jermain defoe and one from frank lampard and peter crouch gave england their seventh win from seven group six qualifying matches. they only need three points from their remaining three qualifiers to take their place in the finals in south africa. coach fabio capello's team provided a treat of attacking football for the 57,897 fans who battled through a tube strike and he thanked them through the stadium announcer for their efforts. they were not disappointed as england maintained their lead at the top of group six, 10 points clear of both croatia and ukraine. capello gave david beckham his 112th cap and 100th start in midfield and england took control from the kickoff with rooney scoring the opening goal in the fourth minute. he had already forced goalkeeper koldo alvraez into making a fingertip save and hit the bar when he headed home a glen johnson cross to settle any england nerves. continual possession england kept almost continual possession in the andorra half with long passages of passing leading to a series of chances. theo walcott attempted a 30-metre shot that went wide and rooney turned and shot wide before england increased their lead when johnson and walcott combined to set up lampard for a low first-time shot through alvarez's legs. rooney's second followed after 39 minutes with a well taken shot that lifted his tally of competitive international goals this season to 10, equalling the record set by gary lineker in 1990-91. england totally dominated the second period but had to wait until the 73rd minute for defoe to score with a free header and he added his second fifth two minutes later after alvarez parried beckham's free kick. crouch made it six with a scrappy goal before alvarez, winning his 78th and final cap for andorra, came off a minute from the end. capello's first full season in charge of england produced nine wins, one draw and one defeat --- arrests made in sultanganj, chairman untraced  dhaka, june 10 (bdnews24.com)police on wednesday arrested two bnp activists in connection with the shooting of a youth by union parishad chairman monir hossain in kamrangirchar the previous day, but the chairman was still absconding. mawla reza, a local swechchhasebak league, filed a case with kamrangirchar police on tuesday night accusing 18 people, including the up chairman and his two brothers, of murder, vandalism and looting, police said. kamrangirchar police chief nazrul islam named the two arrestees as 'hashu' and nazimuddin. "the search is going on for monir hossain," said nazrul police were deployed at the chairman's house, he added. the sultanganj up chairman fired shots at a crowd of angry protestors in kamrangirchar on tuesday, killing 18 year-old woodworker hasan mia. mahfuzur rahman, a fellow woodshop worker, said hasan received a bullet in the chest as the chairman opened fire at the mob in the middle of a heated dispute. hasan was rushed to mitford hospital around 3pm where the duty doctor declared him dead, said mahfuz. witnesses told bdnews24.com that a group of locals, protesting about the expansion of a local road, had surrounded the up chairman in his car at lohar bridge. the protestors mobbed the car as monir was trying to drive away, they said. after the shooting, monir managed to flee, but hundreds of furious locals went on to attack his ashrafabad residence. the mob set fire to his garage, burning a second vehicle belonging to the chairmanan suv. lalbagh zone fire brigade's senior officer manikuzzaman said firefighters rushed to the spot to extinguish the blaze, bringing it under control at around 3.30pm. family members claimed monir, a local bnp leader, was "forced to fire" with "a licensed gun" at local awami league leaders who "attacked him". local awami league leaders said they had not attacked or provoked him in any way. al leaders and supporters in the area were only gathering at lohar bridge for a meeting, kamal hossain shipon, joint secretary of al's kamrangirchar unit, told bdnews24.com. sonia akhtar maya, wife of the up chairman's younger brother, claimed local al leaders and activists had attacked his car so he shot at them to escape. he fled the scene by car to save his life, she said. bdnews2 --- 6 killed, incl. uz chairman, in rajshahi road crash  rajshahi, june 14 (bdnews24.com)  the death toll rose to six after a bus and truck collided in on the dhaka-rajshahi highway in the early hours of sunday. four people, including the local upazila chairman wayezul islam bachchu, 55, were initially reported dead and at least 25 others injured in the head-on collision at puthia. puthia police chief abdul hamid told bdnews24.com that a rajshahi-bound hanif paribahan bus coming from dhaka collided with a truck headed for natore in senbagh area at around 1:15am. three people, wayezul islam, bus conductor hamidul haq and truck driver's assistant jewel rana, 20, died on the spot. three others, haripur union parishad member amzad hossain, 45, panna khatun, 33, of chapainawabganj, and masud, 35, of rajshahi city, died after being admitted to rajshahi medical college hospital. the bodies were kept at the rmch morgue. of the injured, 17 were admitted to rajshahi medical college hospital, while injured truck driver, jahangir, was admitted to natore sadar hospital and others to puthia upazila health complex. police impounded the bus and truck at the local police station. hafizur rahman, brother of the dead bus conductor, filed a case with puthia police station, said police chief hamid. on hearing of upazila chairman bachhu's death, rajshahi deputy commissioner shefaul karim, superintendent of police masum rabbani and leaders of different political parties thronged his house and condoled the bereaved family. his namaz-e-janaza was held at pn high school in puthia in the evening, attended by, among others, rajshahi city corporation mayor khairuzzaman liton. bachhu's body was laid to rest after magrib prayers. bdnews24.c --- chile too hot to handle for hapless bolivia  santiago, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - chile moved closer to securing a berth at the 2010 world cup finals with a 4-0 thrashing of bolivia on wednesday, alexis sanchez sealing the emphatic qualifying win with two late goals for the hosts. led by enigmatic former argentina coach marcelo bielsa, chile climbed to second in the south american group, a point behind leaders brazil, from which the top four go advance automatically to the finals in south africa. winger jean bonsejour put chile ahead two minutes before halftime and there were three more goals in the final 17 minutes, midfielder marco estrada scoring from a free kick in the 73rd before sanchez's quick brace. chile, who last played in a world cup finals in france in 1998, took the lead when bonsejour headed home a cross by matias fernandez. bolivia, ninth in the 10-nation group from which the fifth team plays off against the fourth-placed concacaf country, had midfielder ignacio garcia sent off in the 71st minute for a second bookable offence allowing chile to take full control. estrada's free kick following garcia's dismissal beat carlos arias at his left hand post then sanchez twice got the better of the bolivia goalkeeper in one-on-one situations, scoring his second goal with a lob --- work with obama on arms cuts, germany urges russia  moscow, wed jun 10, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier urged russia on wednesday to work constructively with us president barack obama to reduce nuclear weapons stockpiles. obama is due to travel to russia next month to hold talks with his counterpart dmitry medvedev on a replacement for the 1991 strategic arms reduction treaty (start), which expires on december 5. ahead of that visit, the two sides are trying to narrow their differences. moscow has said it wants to link the nuclear talks to us plans, which it strongly opposes, to deploy an anti-missile shield in central europe. "we need all sides to be constructive, russia needs to be constructive," said steinmeier, the social democrat candidate for chancellor in germany's sept. 27 election. he was speaking in moscow before meetings with medvedev, russian prime minister vladimir putin and foreign minister sergei lavrov. steinmeier also called on russia to work towards an easing of tensions with georgia. the two countries fought a five-day war last year after georgia attempted to retake its breakaway, pro-russian region of south ossetia. tensions have remained high since russia crushed the georgian military and then, over the objections of the united states and europe, recognised south ossetia and a second breakaway region, abkhazia, as independent count --- redmond blazes trail as new zealand crush ireland  nottingham, england, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - aaron redmond crashed 63 from 30 deliveries to help new zealand crush ireland by 83 runs in the opening world cup second-round match on thursday. ireland, replying to new zealand's 198 for five, never threatened to upset the kiwis and were bowled out for just 115 in 16.4 overs. redmond, officially cleared to replace the ailing jesse ryder in new zealand's squad, upstaged opening partner brendon mccullum with an innings which belied his reputation as a dogged batsman. redmond's dominance was shown when new zealand's fifty was registered by a mccullum six that sailed over the square leg boundary, the hundredth maximum of the tournament. redmond was then on 40 and proving a worthy replacement for ryder, who was undergoing tests in hospital for an infection. he was eventually lbw to medium-pacer alex cusack but his departure was followed by a solid partnership of 61 between scott styris (42) and martin guptill (45 not out). ireland's batsmen struggled against the off-spin of nathan mccullum, brother of brendon, who completed figures of three for 15. brendon mccullum was leading the side in place of the injured daniel vettori. ireland next play on sunday against sri lanka at lord's and new zealand meet pakistan at the oval on saturday --- rooney eyes charlton's england scoring record  london, june 11 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - england striker wayne rooney has set his sights on becoming his country's leading goalscorer after his double in the 6-0 thrashing of andorra on wednesday. rooney struck twice before being substituted at halftime, taking his tally to 24 in 52 appearances, as england moved to within one victory of a place at next year's world cup finals in south africa. the manchester united forward has flourished under coach fabio capello and his current form, with 10 goals in his last seven internationals, suggests that he could overhaul the long-standing record of 49 set by bobby charlton. "if i could beat charlton's record, it would be a great achievement and i do have that record in mind," rooney told the bbc. "i have been delighted with the way the scoring has gone for me in the last few games and this has been my best season with england." rooney has been given a more orthodox striking role by capello, one which the 23-year-old is relishing. "i have always said that i have never based my game on goals alone," he said. "i love playing and getting on the ball and getting involved in the game and i am doing thatwith the goals coming on top of that as well. "hopefully, the goals will continue but we are performing as a team and i believe we have one foot in the world cup finals." england have an 11-point lead in group six and need just one more win from their remaining three fixtures to guarantee top spot in the group, although croatia, ukraine and belarus will provide stiffer opposition than andorra. "we've got to be careful," said midfielder david beckham, who started for england for the 100th time. "we've won seven games, we've put in seven good performances, but we're not a team that gets carried away and we're not a squad that gets carried away. we can't afford to. --- bosnian serb jailed for 25 years for town massacre  sarajevo, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the bosnian war crimes court jailed a bosnian serb wartime commander for 25 years friday for ordering a mortar attack in 1995on a northern town that killed 71 people and wounded more than 150. novak djukic was found guilty of war crimes against civilians and violations of international law and the geneva conventions on the protection of civilians during warfare, the court council said. "novak djukic is guilty ... because he ordered on may 25, 1995 his artillery unit on the mountain ozren to shell tuzla, which had been declared a united nations safe zone," said darko samardzic, the court council president. "one missile hit the very center of the town, kapija, killing 71 people and injuring more than 150," said samardzic, reading the verdict. "it is clear that all persons who had been killed and wounded were civilians." relatives cried as he read out the names of those killed and wounded. most victims were aged between 18 and 25. the youngest was a two-year-old boy, hit while in the arms of his father. djukic was a commander of the bosnian serb army in the tuzla region during the 1992-95 bosnian war. tuzla was declared a un safe zone in 1993. djukic was promoted to the rank of general after the war and became the bosnian serb army chief of staff before retiring in 2005. he was arrested in 2007 on suspicion that he had ordered one of the worst massacres of the bosnian war. "any attack on tuzla, a un safe zone, represented an attack on civilians," samardzic said. he added the court was aware the sentence would be regarded as mild by families of the victims, and harsh by djukic's brothers-in-arms. hilmo bucuk, who led a group of parents of child victims to the sarajevo court, said the prevailing mood was one of satisfaction that djukic was punished, but that they had hoped for a life sentence. "we do have a verdict, but our children are gone," bucuk told repor --- unicef urges action against poverty to takle child labour  dhaka, june 11 (bdnews24.com) unicef and its partners have urged action to tackle the poverty that leads to child labour marking the 10th anniversary the world day against child labour. improving access to quality education, particularly for girls in poor and rural settings, is a key part of an effective overall approach, unicef said in a statement on thursday. about 100 million girls around the world involved in child labour are often exposed to some of the worst forms of child labour in work situations. "many girls work in the same sort of agriculture and manufacturing jobs as boys do, but girls carry a higher burden by taking on long hours for unpaid household inside the home and working elsewhere," said susan bissell, unicef chief of child protection. in bangladesh 1.3 million children are involved in hazardous work and 7.4 million are economically active. "a comprehensive programme for basic education and livelihood skills should be undertaken to address the needs of working children throughout the country. only then we will be able to address the child labour issue effectively," said carel de rooy, unicef representative in bangladesh in a programme held on thursday at the bureau of non-formal education to observe the day. unicef in partnership with bangladesh government is working to provide basic education to more than 160,000 urban working children in bangladesh in six divisional cities through hard to reach urban working children project where 60% students are girls, the statement said. according to international labour organisation, the worst forms of child labour are selling or trafficking children, the forced recruitment of child soldiers, using or offering children for prostitution or the production of pornography and using, procuring or offering children for illicit activities or any other activities likely to harm children. the most recent ilo global report on child labour states that in 2004 there were 126 million children engaged in hazardous work that endangers the child's safety, health and development. "improving schooling for children from poor communities, ensuring the availability of flexible and properly funded education programme for child labourers and other marginalized children and abolishing tuition fees in primary education are ways to address the conditions that can lead to child labour," bissell said. unicef stressed for right to education for all children including girls. girls with an education are more likely to avoid poverty and ensure education of their own children helping to avoid future child labour, the statement s --- deal on n.korea sanctions eludes un powers for now  united nations, jun 10 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - major world powers edged toward agreement on tuesday on a un resolution expanding sanctions on north korea over its nuclear weapons program but were unable to close the deal, diplomats said. "we continue to engage in intense and productive negotiations," us ambassador to the united nations susan rice said. "we're making progress, but we're not done yet." russia, which holds a veto in the council and has had some concerns about sanctions, said consensus was emerging. several diplomats close to talks among the five permanent security council members, japan and non-council member south korea dismissed news reports that the seven countries had already reached agreement. the united states and japan have pushed for strong sanctions to punish north korea for its nuclear test in may, but china and russia have been cautious about provoking pyongyang by imposing more sanctions. "we have got the makings of a deal, but one delegation still needs to hear back from its capital," a western diplomat close to the talks told reuters. two diplomats from among the security council's five permanent members said they believed china had agreed with the us-drafted text of a resolution within the last 24 hours, but russia had raised new concerns. the seven countries agreed "to continue our consultations on a draft resolution," japanese ambassador yukio takasu said. "i think it's clear that we need to spend more time, to continue the consultations." the diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a meeting of permanent council members britain, china, france, russia and the united states, along with japan and south korea ended without resolving russian concerns. other diplomats said moscow was more concerned about language than specific proposed measures. they hoped the issue would be resolved overnight, enabling the seven nations to circulate a draft resolution on wednesday to the full 15-nation council, which could then vote on it as early as on friday. russian ambassador vitaly churkin said in a statement "we are satisfied that consensus is emerging." inspecting cargoes several diplomats had said recent versions of the draft called for moderate tightening of previous sanctions. the initial draft circulated at the end of may among some council members strongly condemned north korea's nuclear test and urged un members to begin enforcing previously approved sanctions against pyongyang. it left blank a section on possible new sanctions, which have been the subject of intense negotiation at the united nations over the past 10 days. later drafts included language requiring un member states to inspect suspicious north korean air and sea cargo, but the chinese opposed those provisions. the provisions on forced inspections was likely to be dropped for the time being, japan's kyodo news agency quoted an unidentified un diplomatic source source as saying. but the resolution was set to include new financial sanctions and was likely to anger north korea, kyodo reported. security council resolution 1718, passed in october 2006 after pyongyang's first nuclear test, banned further atomic explosions and long-range missile launches by north korea and imposed limited financial sanctions and a partial trade and arms embargo on pyongyang. the measures have been widely ignored and left unenforced. other measures in recent drafts included a call for the addition of more companies to a un blacklist of firms aiding pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs and expanding the arms embargo to ban the sale of all arms by north korea, not just heavy weapons. it would still be able to import small arms --- pm urged to side with people on tipai dam  dhaka, june 15 (bdnews24.com)  former transparency international, bangladesh chairman professor muzaffer ahmed on monday asked prime minister sheikh hasina to side with the people on the issue of tipaimukh dam project. "people elected you to protect the interest of the country. don't forget their interest. you have to take position against the construction of tipaimukh dam alongside the people." "the dam project has turned into a life-threatening problem for us. it is not a political issue," he told a seminar on 'tipaimukh dam: responsibilities of bangladesh'. "all of us will have to protest against the project and launch a movement. those who are on behalf of the project are not the friends of the country," muzaffer said. the project will destroy the water sources and resources. the land, biodiversity and human resources will also be endangered. not only bangladesh many indian states including mizoram will be affected. people in mizoram form human chains and rallies every day but neither the bangladeshi nor the indian media report them. "one can see the news on the websites of mizoram," muzafer said. he asked all to raise public awareness and hold protest rallies against the move. the ex-tib chairman asked the mps and cabinet members to work in the interests of the people. "i request you who do not want to protect the interest of the country to quit the position." surma kushiara meghna banchao andolan organised the seminar at national press club. b --- budget accessible on websites  dhaka, jun 10 (bdnews24.com)finance minister ama muhith will place the budget for 2009-10 fiscal in the second session of the ninth parliament as the budget session will sit at 3pm on thursday, a government handout said. the details of the budget and the budget speech of the finance minister will be available on the official websites of the finance ministry and on bdnews24.com. the other details of budget will include its summery, annual financial statement, list of grants and allocation demands, mid-term budget structure, supplementary financial statement and economic review-2009, among other things. the handout said for the details of the budget government websites  www.nbr_bd.org, www.plancomm.gov.bd, www.imed.gov.bd, www.bdpressinform.org, www.pmo.gov.bd, www.bangladesh.gov.bd and the online newspaper website www.bdnews24.com  will be linked with the finance ministry's website: www.mof.gov.bd to ensure people's participation. any person or institutions will be able to read and download all the contents of the budget, while they will also be able send their feedback and recommendations by filling a "feedback form", the handout read. all the available feedback and recommendations will be considered for implementation following the parliament's approval of the budget, it said. bdn --- argentina look nervously over their shoulders  buenos aires, june 12 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - argentina's latest away defeat in south american world cup qualifying has left them looking nervously over their shoulders at a pack of teams who are closing in behind. beaten 2-0 in ecuador on wednesday amid growing doubts over diego maradona's coaching abilities, argentina remained in the top four where they need to finish to qualify directly for south africa. but their five-point cushion over fifth placewhich would force them into a two-leg playoff against the fourth team from concacafhas been eaten away. ecuador are lurking only two points behind on 20, uruguay have 18 and colombia and venezuela 17 each. worryingly for maradona, argentina's run-in features three of the toughest matches in the 18-game campaign. they host a rampant brazil in september and face a tricky visit to third-placed paraguay, who have become direct rivals for a place. after a straightforward game at home to table-propping peru in october, they finish their 18-match programme at arch-rivals uruguaythe last place they would want to go needing a win. "we've put ourselves under pressure again and now we have to concentrate on beating brazil," said maradona. australia playoff it is the first time argentina have struggled since south america's current system of qualifiers, in which all the teams play each other twice, was introduced for the 1998 world cup. four years ago, argentina qualified with three games to spare and in 2002, when an identical fixture list was used, a 2-0 win in ecuador sealed their place in japan and south korea. having suffered in the shorter formats used previously, argentina are big supporters of the present system which is often criticised by european clubs because of the number of transatlantic trips their south american players have to make. in 1993, argentina were forced into a two-leg playoff against australia after finishing second in a four-team group behind colombia who memorably beat them 5-0 in buenos aires. back in 1969, they failed to qualify altogether from a three-team group which also featured bolivia and peru. most commentators agreed there was a general improvement in wednesday's performance compared to saturday's 1-0 home win over colombia, when maradona's team were in complete disarray. the midfield formation, with fernando gago and sebastian battaglia in front of the defence, maxi rodriguez on the right and jonas gutierrez on the left, worked well for the first 70 minutes when argentina created more chances than the hosts. but they were made to pay for dreadful finishing which included a carlos tevez penalty miss in the first half. maradona admitted he had no idea how he would face the brazilians. "i don't know what we're going to do between here and the airport, let alone in three months time," he was quoted as saying by the clarin newspaper --- us hospitals rationing nuclear imaging tests  chicago, fri jun 12, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a north american shortage of medical isotopes has forced many us hospitals to begin rationing scores of diagnostic tests, and doctors said on friday they see no quick solution. last month, canadian health officials shut down a nuclear reactor in eastern ontario that produces a third of the world's supply of medical isotopes, used in scans to check for an impending heart attack or see if cancer has spread. repairs of a leak of heavy water at the chalk river reactor, first estimated to take a month, may now take three, and canadian officials say they eventually may leave the isotope business altogether. the canadian plant is one of five aging reactors worldwide -- none located in the united states -- to produce molybdenum-99, the most commonly used medical isotope. the rapidly decaying substance has a shelf life of just 67 hours, making it impossible to stockpile. "we are seeing a shortage," said dr. peter conti of the university of southern california in los angeles. conti said the university's three hospitals have begun rationing supplies, and they are not alone. conti said a prolonged shortage could threaten clinical trials for cancer drugs because patients may not be able to get needed scans on schedule, forcing them to drop out. the society of nuclear medicine said 91 percent of 375 members including doctors and nuclear medicine technicians at hospitals across the nation reported in an e-mail survey this week that they had been affected by the shortage, with 60 percent postponing procedures and 31 percent canceling some. at the university of chicago medical center, doctors are recommending alternative diagnostic tests that do not rely on this medical isotope but may not be as good and may cost more. "pretty much every reasonable-sized medical center is going to have a nuclear medicine department that relies very heavily on this isotope," said dr. daniel appelbaum, who heads the university's nuclear medicine department. 'gone by the wayside' conti said doctors at usc are performing only the most urgent tests, typically for heart scans. he said tests to check if cancer has spread to bones "have gone by the wayside." he said some cancer patients will be switched to more expensive positron emission tomography scans, known as pet scans. the test is approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, but is not covered by medicare, the federal health insurance program for the elderly and disabled. "for medicare, we're going to have to eat some of those costs. we'll try to bill on the private side," he said. the shortage has taken a toll on toronto-based mds inc, which distributes medical isotopes worldwide from the canadian reactor. mds on thursday said it lost $17 million in the second quarter. privately held lantheus medical imaging of massachusetts, which processes isotopes for medical use, got most of its supply from chalk river. the company last month cut a deal with other suppliers to cope with the impact of the shutdown. covidien, another major us supplier, gets most of its isotopes from a reactor in petten, the netherlands, which has shielded its clients somewhat from the canadian shutdown. but that may change next month when the dutch reactor goes off line for a four-week maintenance shutdown. in a may 22 letter on the fda website, covidien said, "even with numerous global efforts and collaborations now underway, there will be challenges meeting full market need." dr. robert atcher, president of the society of nuclear medicine, said the nearest-term solution would be to accelerate a us department of energy plan to convert a research reactor at the university of missouri to medical isotopes production. without added capacity and a stable domestic supply, he said, patients will be at  --- over 100 iranian reformists arrested :reformer  tehran, sun jun 14, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - over 100 reformists, including mohammad reza khatami the brother of former president khatami, were arrested on saturday night, leading reformist mohammad ali abtahi told reuters on sunday. "they were taken from their homes last night," said former vice president abtahi. he said more arrests were expected. the arrested reformists were members of iran's leading reformist party mosharekat. thousands of people clashed with police on saturday after the disputed election victory of president mahmoud ahmadinejad sparked the biggest protests in tehran since the 1979 islamic revolution. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei told iranians to respect ahmadinejad's victory in a presidential election that his closest challenger described as a "dangerous char --- n.korea sanctions won't escalate tension: russia source  seoul/moscow, thu jun 11, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia does not expect north korea to respond to un sanctions for its nuclear test with moves that would further ratchet up tension, itar-tass news agency quoted a diplomatic source as saying on thursday. the draft un security council resolution, written by the united states and endorsed by the four other permanent members plus japan and south korea, aims to hit the north's meager overseas finances and could be voted on by as early as friday. "the resolution is being adopted in order to solve the problem, and not to whip up the situation," the russian foreign ministry source told itar-tass. "we don't expect any actions to follow, including from north korea, that would lead to an escalation of tension. but some analysts believe the resolution, if adopted, would draw sharp rebuke from the prickly north, which threatened to test-fire an intercontinental ballistic missile unless the security council apologizes for punishing it for an april rocket launch widely seen as a disguised long-range missile test. "this sanctions regime, if passed by the security council, will bite, and bite in a meaningful way," us ambassador to the united nations, susan rice, told reporters. north korea has been subjected to sanctions for years for military moves condemned by regional powers. analysts are not sure if new measures will have much impact on the impoverished state, whose economy has only grown weaker since leader kim jong-il took over in 1994. the u.n. draft "condemns in the strongest terms" north korea's nuclear test last month and "demands that (it) not conduct any further nuclear test or any launch using ballistic missile technology." compromises the end result reflected compromises to satisfy chinese and russian objections. beijing and moscow had opposed language in earlier drafts requiring all countries to inspect north korean ships carrying suspicious cargo that might violate a partial un trade and arms embargo. in the latest version, the security council "calls upon" states to inspect suspicious sea, air and land cargoes, but does not demand it. arms sales are one of north korea's few sources of hard cash. beijing, the closest pyongyang can claim as a major ally, is reluctant to accept any new sanctions that would significantly undercut its economic ties to north korea or push an already weak economy into collapse. "china feels in no position to push back hard, because north korea has offered it nothing to fall back on. nothing," said shi yinhong, an international security expert at china's renmin university, in explaining why beijing appears to be on board. north korea has angered the region and countries beyond in the past few weeks with missile launches, threats to attack the south and a nuclear test, prompting u.s. and south korean forces to raise a military alert on the peninsula to one of its highest since the 1950-53 korean war. joint industrial complex the north has been able to obtain a steady flow of foreign currency from south korean companies using cheap north korean labor and land to make goods at the kaesong industrial enclave, located just within the communist state. north korea held talks on thursday with the south over the joint park, once hailed as a model of economic cooperation and now point of tension between the rival states. it asked for a four-fold increase in wages paid to its workers, which could enrich pyongyang's coffers. north last month said it was revoking all deals on wages, rent and fees paid there. analysts said this was likely a bargaining ploy to squeeze more money out of the south, which pays wages and other fees directly to the north's government. south korea's defense minister said on wednesday he saw the north's military moves as being aimed at building internal support for kim's government as the 67-year-old leader prepares for succession in asia's only communist dynasty. the north has been preparing to test-launch as early as this month a long-range missile that could hit us territory and mid-range missile that can hit all of south korea and most of japan, south korean officials have  --- siddeshwari punished in women's school football  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  viqarunnisa school and college have been awarded the final spot of the citycell metropolis women's school football championship after scratching siddeshwari girl's high school for playing illegal players for their side in the semi-finals. the decision was taken on wednesday at a meeting of the tournament committee of the bangladesh football federation after viqarunnisa lodged a complaint after being outplayed by 3-1 in the tie-breaker on tuesday. the committee found siddeshwari violating the bylaws to have played six illegal players, who had played for narayanganj district in the national women's football championship as well as over-aged than tournament's requirement of 16, in their side. sir john wilson school will take on viqarunnisa in the final on thursday at the bangabandhu national stadium. the committee also decided to ban siddeshwari girls high school for three years. bd --- tough times loom for new toyota chief  tokyo, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - akio toyoda takes charge at toyota motor corp this week with the company facing its biggest ever loss, but few expect his appointment to bring about the changes needed to drive the world's no.1 automaker back into the black. amid a global recession that has hammered car sales, toyota's factories are severely underused. making matters worse, toyota builds about half of its vehicles in japan, which works against it with the dollar squarely below 100 yen. but unlike bankrupt u.s. rivals chrysler and general motors, which have closed plants, slashed jobs and shuttered dealerships in an effort to survive, toyota has said it plans to ride out the downturn with its production capacity intact, arguing global vehicle demand will eventually recover. "erasing the losses is an urgent task but fundamentally, this company does things with a medium-term vision," said tsuyoshi mochimaru, an auto analyst at barclays capital. "they're not going to suddenly change the way they do things to satisfy the short term. i expect the new management's strategy to be an extension of the previous one's," he said. shunning western-style restructuring, toyota has chosen to use the down-time to train workers. already known as a lean operator, it is trying to squeeze costs further so it can be profitable using just 70 percent of its production capacity. "a v-shaped recovery is actually not that difficult if you slash capex and jobs, for instance. toyota could probably get a restructuring impact of close to 1 trillion yen. it's not that they can't do it -- they won't do it," mochimaru said. wither the "drastic measures?" toyoda, long seen as a candidate to head the company founded by his grandfather in 1937, is set to be confirmed as toyota president following the annual shareholders' meeting on tuesday. toyoda has said he will steer the company "back to the basics" from a run of expansion in the past decade that outgoing president katsuaki watanabe conceded may have been too fast. chairman fujio cho admitted in january that there was some hesitation about handing the baton to the relatively young toyoda at such turbulent times, but said ultimately that a younger leader and the toyoda name were the best hope for taking the "drastic measures" needed during the crisis. but neither cho nor toyoda specified what those measures would entail, and analysts said they could be elusive anyway. "a drastic reform at toyota would involve cutting back its domestic production base," said kurt sanger, a tokyo-based auto analyst at deutsche securities. "but that probability is low. and with 50 percent of its production in japan and the dollar at 95 yen, even if the u.s. market returns to 16 million units tomorrow, they'll still be making less profit than before." facing annual u.s. industry sales of around 10 million units, toyota is expecting last year's first-ever operating loss to balloon to 850 billion yen ($8.8 billion) in the year to march 2010. while analysts see toyota's loss projection for this year as too cautious -- consensus forecasts put the loss at 495 billion yen -- they said returning to profit would be tough, and dependent on an economic recovery. even then, toyota could face tougher competition as long as the yen stays relatively firm. with most of its high-end lexus cars produced in japan, toyota will either have to raise prices or accept lower margins. in contrast, a drop in the korean won has made hyundai motor co's cars more attractive and profitable. the new, low-priced prius hybrid launched last month has reversed the sales decline for that model, but risks eating into sales of its other, more profitable cars. in contrast, analysts say honda motor co's new low-cost insight hybrid is relatively profitable, probably yielding higher margins than its fit subcompact. old vs new toyoda and his new management team are scheduled to hold a news conference in tokyo on thursday and few expect them to throw away the playbook that has made toyota a model of management success for decades. supporting the 53-year-old toyoda will be five vice presidents -- four of them new -- while two key company elders, honorary chairman shoichiro toyoda -- akio's father -- and senior adviser hiroshi okuda, will resign from the board. eight new officials will join the 29-member board. in a move seen as an attempt to balance the newly promoted with seasoned veterans, toyota will bring back yoshimi inaba, an outspoken heavyweight who left as executive vice president in 2007. inaba is expected to take charge of toyota's north american operations, while takeshi uchiyamada, chief engineer of the first-generation prius, will switch to r&d and corporate planning from manufacturing. senior managing directors yukitoshi funo, atsushi niimi, shinichi sasaki and yoichiro ichimaru will be promoted to executive vice presidents. in a fresh strategy, each vice president will also be assigned a major region to oversee on top of their other areas of responsibility, a source familiar with the plan said. under the current structure, toyoda was in charge of japanese and all overseas operations. --- corruption tops many iraqis' concerns, not security  baghdad, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - many iraqis, inured to violence after years of slaughter between shi'ites and sunnis, seem more worried about the corruption that has crept into every corner of life and is eating away at iraq's nascent public institutions. the violence triggered by the 2003 us invasion is fading and as it does, iraqis focus more and more on the problems plaguing their daily lives, such as intermittent electricity, a lack of clean drinking water and an overwhelmed sewage system. topping the concerns of many is a pandemic of corruption, which is undermining efforts to rebuild and provide basic services and could ultimately brew so much discontent that the flagging insurgency may find rich soil in which to renew itself. "i cannot move one step without bribing people," said adel hamza, who as head of public relations at a foreign construction company is responsible for getting contracts signed, stamped and authenticated by iraqi authorities. "everyone has got their mouths open as if i am feeding birds." it is difficult to find someone in the government who can put a figure on the amount being embezzled or paid in bribes for government contracts, passports or other official paperwork. one senior official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said at least $4 billion of iraq's $58.6 billion 2009 annual budget was expected to go astray. as oil prices surged to historic highs last year over $147 per barrel, the iraqi economy was flooded with cash. only somalia and myanmar were seen as more corrupt than iraq in 2008, according to corruption watchdog transparency international. maliki vows crackdown the end of june will mark the start of the u.s. withdrawal from iraq, when the combat troops that invaded to topple saddam hussein pull out of iraqi cities, leaving security in urban centres in the hands of iraqi police and soldiers. prime minister nuri al-maliki and other politicians have warned that sunni islamist al qaeda and other violent groups are likely to try to take advantage of the u.s. pull-back to launch more attacks in a bid to reignite sectarian warfare. a spate of bombings around baghdad and in other areas killed 27 people monday and a massive truck bomb saturday killed 73 outside a mosque near the northern city of kirkuk. haider abdul-muhsin says that when he needs to get interior ministry officials to sign identification documents, he has to spread money around like confetti. "from the entry gate where a security guard stands till i get to the officer, i have to pay money to get my paperwork processed. this is not normal," said muhsin. he believes corruption lies behind the dilapidated state of his neighborhood, where sewage pools in cracks in the pavement. a renovation project begun three years ago was never finished. muhsin said he heard the contractor took the money and ran. "my district looks like it was hit by a rocket," he said. in the wake of corruption allegations against officials in the trade ministry, which oversees iraq's massive food subsidy program and imports billions of dollars worth of wheat, rice and sugar every year, maliki vowed to crack down on graft. former trade minister abdul falah al-sudany was arrested last month after a plane he was flying on to dubai was ordered to turn around. one of his brothers is also under arrest and another is on the run. the ministry has denied wrongdoing. "financial and administrative corruption is more dangerous than terrorism because terrorism kills a person or two or even 100, but corruption kills millions by depriving them of projects, from getting access to good quality medicine ... and it does not encourage international investors," said ghazi al-kinani, an economic analyst. housewife najat al-azzawi said the lack of public services six years after the invasion made her nervous about the future. "security was previously the problem, now corruption heads the list," she  --- govt to appoint another 25,000 school teachers  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)the government will appoint another 25, 000 school teachers across the country, the education minister has said. "we have already appointed 20,000 teachers for primary education; a process to appoint another 25,000 would start very soon," nurul islam nahid told reporters on tuesday, emerging from a conference. replying to queries, he said that the government was mulling over modifying the curriculum of the kawmi madrasas. "religious educational system will be on definitely...side by side, we want to equip [madrasa students] with modern education so that they can play a role in the real life." earlier, the minister inaugurated the eighth international language and development conference hosted by the british council in partnership with education and foreign affairs ministries, department of international development (dfid) bangladesh, university grants commission (ugc) and the institute of education and research of dhaka university. he told the conference that language played a huge historical role for the bangladeshi people for what they are today. "i believe the theme for this conference will provide a platform for exploring all the issues as well as challenges related to language and development in bangladesh," said nahid. language and development: socio-cultural issues and challenges, has been set at as the theme for the three-day conference held at the city's sonargaon hotel. the conference aims to provide an opportunity to address issues on language policy, gender, cultural identity and social dimensions of capacity building in developing nations, says a statement by the organisers. speaking as the special guest, uk high commissioner stephen evans said the conference would open a window for creative discussions between academics and experts. approaches in which the expansion of language skills can drive development process in culturally and socially sensitive ways would come out from the conference, he added. the opening session of the conference also heard from ugc chairman professor nazrul islam khan and charles nuttall, director of british council, bangladesh. --- indonesia confirms first cases of h1n1 flu virus  jakarta, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - indonesia's health minister confirmed on wednesday the country's first cases of the h1n1 flu virus after an indonesian pilot in jakarta and a british woman in the resort island of bali tested positive for the virus. the 22-year-old british woman had been living in australia, while the pilot, 37, had travelled to australia and hong kong, health minister siti fadillah supari said. the minister told a news conference that she believed both cases had originated from australia and there was no evidence the virus had spread in indonesia, the world's fourth-most populous country with 226 million people. "i assure you indonesians have not been infecting other indonesians. both cases were transmitted from abroad," she said, adding that those in contact with the two confirmed sufferers had been screened for the virus. she urged health authorities in bali, the country's main tourism hub, to increase surveillance of those visiting the island from abroad. the minister also said she was concerned that if h1n1 got a foothold in indonesia there was a risk it could combine with the much deadlier h5n1 bird flu virus. indonesia has the highest death toll from bird flu of any country, with the country's bird flu commission confirming 119 deaths from the disease. the h1n1 virus has spread around the globe and the world health organisation has declared an influenza pandemic and advised governments to prepare for a long-term battle against h1n1. there have been more than 50,000 confirmed cases of the h1n1 virus and at least 237 people have  --- ed mcmahon dies at 86  los angeles, jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - ed mcmahon, a fixture on us late-night television for 30 years as the full-throated announcer and sidekick for johnny carson on nbc's "the tonight show," died on tuesday at 86 after battling a series of illnesses in recent months. the veteran tv personality best known for his nightly introduction of carson in a deep, booming voice with the drawn-out line, "heeeeeeeeere's johnny!" died at a los angeles-area hospital, and was immediately hailed by friends and former colleagues as an icon of american popular culture. "he died early this morning with his wife and loved ones by his side," his spokesman howard bragman said. mcmahon had been battling pneumonia, among many other illnesses. outgoing, affable and possessing a robust, baritone voice, mcmahon began his career with stints as a bingo caller, carnival barker and boardwalk pitchman before becoming a broadcast announcer and tv host. trained as a us marine fighter pilot during world war ii, he flew missions in korea in the 1950s. he went on to become one of the most celebrated sidekicks in tv history as carson's right-hand man on "the tonight show" from 1962 to 1992, when carson retired as host. the gregarious mcmahon, a frequent comic foil for the carson during ad-libbed banter at the top of the show, was familiar even off camera for his "hi-oooooh!" and frequent guffaws at carson's monologue jokes, especially when a punch line fell flat. carson died in 2005 at age 79. "ed's introduction of johnny was a classic broadcasting ritual -- reassuring and exciting. ed was a true broadcaster, and an integral part of johnny carson's 'tonight show.' we will miss him," talk show host david letterman said on tuesday. enduring catchphrase mcmahon's signature introduction of carson endured as a catch-phrase. jack nicholson's maniacal character in the 1980 movie thriller "the shining" announced "heeeeeeere's johnny!" as he burst through a door to menace his wife with an ax. mcmahon was a leading figure on several other tv shows, too, including the talent show "star search" in the 1980s. he was a long-time co-host of jerry lewis' annual telethon benefiting the muscular dystrophy association, and he became well-known as the presenter of the american family publishing sweepstakes, as well as a pitchman on numerous tv commercials. lewis said mcmahon was "a dear, dear friend. we were always making jokes, cracking each other up ... it's hard to imagine doing the (telethon) without him." california governor and former movie star arnold schwarzenegger said america had lost "one of its greatest and most memorable television personalities." "from 'star search' to the 30 years he spent in our living rooms as an integral part of the 'tonight show,' ed brought joy and laughter to millions of americans," schwarzenegger said in a statement. mcmahon made headlines a year ago when he defaulted on a $4.8 million mortgage on his six-bedroom beverly hills mansion, although he later found a buyer and avoided foreclosure. the star blamed his financial woes on having broken his neck about 18 months earlier, leaving him unable to work. he also sued cedars-sinai medical center, accusing it of failing to diagnose the neck fracture and botching two operat --- dse-30 blue chip index planned  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)the dhaka stock exchange has said it will be introducing dse-30 index in a revision of the blue chip index in to put up 30 best performing companies. a 10-strong selection committee for the top 30 listed companies headed by former finance adviser to the caretaker government ab mirza azizul islam agreed that the current index, dse-20, would be replaced by dse-30 and reviewed every year. dse-20 was introduced by the premier bourse as a benchmark for financially sound companies, but lost its standing among the market operators and investors alike since it has not been updated since its introduction in january 2001. former central bank governor mohammad farashuddin, former securities and exchange commission chairman faruq ahmad siddiqi, fbcci president annisul huq, centre for policy dialogue executive director mustafizur rahman and ma baqi khalili, a finance professor at the university of dhaka also sit on the committee. dse president rakibur rahman, ceo afm shariful islam and chief financial officer satipati moitra are also members of the committee. the press release by the dse said that the committee's first meeting held on monday also decided to award the 30 blue chip companies every year. it also said that the committee would sit further to nominate the top 30 companies for the year. the selection of the blue chip companies would be based on several criteria, such as their contribution to market capitalisation, paid-up capital, earnings per share, net asset value, reserve, dividend yield and corporate governance. the dse-20 index comprises aci, amcl (pran), apex tannery, bata shoe, batbc, bd lamps, boc, beximco pharma, dhaka bank, gq ball pen, islami bank, meghna cement, monno ceramics, nbl, prime bank, singer bd, southeast bank, square textile, square pharma and uttara finance. --- bus crash kills 25 in kashmir  jammu, india, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - at least 25 people were killed when an overcrowded bus veered off a mountain road in indian kashmir and fell down a deep gorge into a stream, officials said on wednesday. the driver lost control of the bus carrying office workers near panthal, 55 km from jammu, the winter capital of jammu and kashmir state. rescuers who struggled with rocky terrain were shifting the 43 passengers injured in the crash to nearby hospitals. "the driver lost control of the bus and rolled down about 250 feet deep gorge into a stream near panthal this morning," sanjeev verma, deputy commissioner of reasi district, told reuters by phone. buses in kashmir are often overcrowded and accidents on narrow mountainous roads are common. --- 6-hr transport strike enforced in narayanganj  narayanganj, june 24 (bdnews24.com)transport owners and workers association observed a six-hour strike in narayanganj on wednesday in protest at the incident of vandalising vehicles allegedly by the supporters of mp sarah begum kabari the previous day. narayanganj district bus-minibus owners-workers' association called for the strike that started on 6am. transport movement became normal after the midday. students and office-goers faced trouble as vehicles stayed off dhaka-narayanganj route. around 12 buses of kabari's fleet were rampaged at chasharah on tuesday when they were going to dhaka to attend the 60th anniversary programmes of awami league. "they (supporters of kabari) took 13 vehicles from us. when they wanted more the owners demanded fare. the supporters became angry and damaged vehicles," said muktar hossain, president of the association and chairman of ananda paribahan. kabari said a particular family that wanted to rule narayanganj through terrorism had carried out the attack. but transport owners said the rampage was done at her orders. the association held a protest meeting at the central bus terminal of the town on tuesday afternoon and urged the authorities to take steps against those involved. bdnews --- seven test positive for swine flu  dhaka, june 24(bdnews24.com) six more people, almost all of whom recently returned from the us, tested positive for swine flu on wednesday, the iedcr said, pushing to seven the total number of known cases in bangladesh. "almost all of them recently returned from the us," iedcr director mahmudur rahman told bdnews24.com. "all of them are doing fine and undergoing treatment at home," he said. passengers are being screened at dhaka, chittagong and sylhet airports, chittagong and mongla seaports and 11 land ports to check swine flu, mahmudur rahman said. he said that they had so far carried tests for the h1n1 virus in 59 bodies and found it in seven people. the health ministry on friday said that the first swine flu case was detected in bangladesh the day before. on examining the throat swab and nasal wash samples of a bangladeshi young man who had returned from the united states, iedcr and icddr,b on thursday confirmed the first case of the h1n1 virus responsible for the deadly flu. india is examining incoming passengers at the international airports to check the flu pandemic. the middle eastern countries, home to the largest numbers of bangladeshi expatriate workers, have also launched the drive against it. in india, more than 10 patients have been detected with swine flu, one of them in kolkata. gulf times reported a bangladeshi child in doha was detected with swine flu some days back. the victim was on its way to bangladesh from the us. the child is undergoing treatment. since the who declared the swine flu pandemic on june 11, bangladesh has been free of any infestation until this case. so far the virus is causing mild to moderate disease, but it has killed at least 171 people and been confirmed in nearly 43,312 globally. the virus has killed 109 people in mexico, where it was first detected in april before spreading to the rest of the world, prompting the mexican government to temporarily shut schools and businesses in an effort to slow its spread. countries from australia to chile to the united states, where 44 people have been killed, are reporting that the new swine flu virus is "crowding out" seasonal flu, becoming the predominant influenza strain. patients with specific flu-like symptomsa fever above 40 degrees c, cough or other respiratory symptomsare presumed to have the new virus bdnew --- roadside bomb kills three unhcr afghan employees  mazar-i-sharif, afghanistan, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a roadside bomb killed three afghan employees of the united nations refugee agency (unhcr) on tuesday in afghanistan's northern jowzjan province, the provincial governor said. hashim zari blamed the taliban for the blast, part of a rise in militant attacks in recent months in several parts of northern afghanistan, regarded as relatively secure until recently compared to the south and east where the islamists are most active. "with regret, we have to say that this blast killed three afghan workers from unchr today," zari told a reuters reporter by telephone in northern afghanistan. the blast hit a unhcr vehicle carrying the agency's officials as they were driving on a road in the province, zari said. authorities had arrested three suspected men in relation to the incident, he added. the taliban, who lead the insurgency against the government and foreign troops, could not be reached immediately for comment --- hc judges ex-du vc in contempt over mujib verdict  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  the high court has judged former vice-chancellor of dhaka university, emajuddin ahmed, as being in contempt of court after he spoke against its verdict regarding the proclamation of independence. the high court on june 21 ruled that sheikh mujibur rahman, and not ziaur rahman, was the declarer of bangladesh's independence from pakistan in 1971. the next day, emajuddin said that high court was running "a malign campaign". the court on wednesday ordered him to appear on july 2 to answer in person why punitive measures should not be taken against him for speaking against the court and its verdict. the bench of justices abm khairul haque and momtaz uddin ahmed gave the order on a petition by freedom fighter dr ma salam, who also filed the original public interest petition on which the proclamation verdict was given. advocate manjil morshed appealed on behalf of the petitioner. bdn --- hc order on proclamation challenged  dhaka, jun 23 (bdnews24.com)the supreme court on tuesday received an appeal to overturn that high court order that ruled that sheikh mujibur rahman proclaimed bangladesh's independence from pakistan in 1971. the appeal was filed on behalf of wing commander hamidullah khan. the high court on sunday ruled that sheikh mujib, not ziaur rahman, proclaimed the independence. a two-judge bench of justices abm khairul haque and mamotaz uddin ahmed also ordered the cancellation of bangladesh liberation war documents (bangladesher swadhinata juddho dalilpatra) that presented ziaur rahman, then a major in the pakistan army, as the "declarer of independence". the high court verdict was given on a public interest litigation by freedom fighter ma salam. the verdict had also said those who were involved in such distortion of history have violated the constitution and the government could take punitive measures against them. the high court directed the government to include true history in textbooks at all level. "by reviewing international and national newspapers and other documents, the court has established the truth that it was bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman who proclaimed the independence," additional attorney general m inayetur rahim told bdnews24.com in his reaction. "this verdict has washed away the plot to distort the history of the independence proclamation by the anti-liberation quarter for long time," he said. the writ petitioner salam said, "the truth has won. now the next generation will know the true history of independence proclamation." bdnew --- three indian players delayed by british visa wait  chennai, india, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - three indian players have yet to leave for the west indies barely three days before the start of the four-match one-day series because of a delay in getting transit visas for britain. batsmen subramaniam badrinath and murali vijay and uncapped all-rounder abhishek nayar were to join the team in the caribbean after most members of the squad travelled directly from england following their premature exit from the twenty20 world cup. a team source told reuters the trio had not got their visas for britain, where they change airports, until tuesday evening. the four matches will be played from june 26 to july 5 in jamaica and st. lucia. coach gary kirsten blamed fatigue for india's twenty20 exit, saying the lack of rest after the indian premier league season had left players tired and carrying injur --- jmb suspects, including buet grad, remanded  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)a dhaka court on tuesday granted the police five days to grill two alleged members of outlawed islamist outfit jama'tul mujahideen bangladesh, including an engineering graduate that rab claim is jmb's "it chief". buet graduate emranul haq rajib, 30, and abu bakar siddique, 20, were arrested on sunday. dhaka metropolitan magistrate rokhsana begum happy sent the two into remand upon the case investigation officer kamaruzzaman's plea. kamaruzzaman, the sub-inspector at the pallabi police station, said they were leaders of jmb's suicide squad and involved in sabotage acts. police charged rajib and siddique in two casesone under anti-terrorism ordinance-2008 and another under explosives act. they were remanded in the ant-terrorism ordinance case and hearing on the other case will be held on june 28. the rapid action battalion arrested four including the two in two raids at muktagachha in mymensingh and dhaka. the other two arrestees were named as saiful islam, 28, and shirin shapla. however, they were not placed before the court on tuesday. rab said buet student rajib is it chief as well as main expert on bombs and explosives. b --- younus khan urges team to take t20 form into tests  karachi, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan captain younus khan urged his team on tuesday to take the form they showed in winning the twenty20 world cup into the test and 50 overs arenas. younus was mobbed by hundreds of fans at karachi airport on tuesday after returning from london. the remainder of the team landed earlier in lahore. "i was always confident we could win this tournament once we started winning matches and got into a momentum. our nation deserved a feel good moment in these hard times," younus told reporters. "we need to show the same consistency and the same winning mentality in other forms of the sport. my dream is to see pakistan cricket at the top in test and one-day cricket as well." pakistan beat sri lanka in the final at lord's on sunday, setting off a wave of celebrations in their troubled nation. younus credited his team's win to his own change in attitude during the tournament. "i realized that i had to be dead serious as captain and senior player because t20 cricket is one of the most demanding forms of the sport. it saps the energy in just 40 overs," he said. "this win is very important for us because it gives our cricket a big boost at a time when people were losing interest in the sport with teams not visiting pakistan." in lahore, hundreds of drum beating and flag waving fans returned home disappointed after they were unable to welcome the team because of tight security at the allama iqbal airport. the players were whisked away through a side entrance. "we feel sorry for our fans who prayed for our success and they couldn't see us. but we had to follow the advice of the security personal," coach intikhab alam told reuters. police officials said they believed it would be a security risk to bring out the players from the main lounge. militants have carried out several suicide bomb attacks in lahore in the past few months and the sri lankan team were attacked in march while on their way from their hotel to the gaddafi stadium to play a test match --- pakistan court rejects sarabjit's death sentence appeal  islamabad, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan's supreme court dismissed on wednesday an appeal by sarabjit singh, an indian man seeking a review of a death sentence imposed on him for spying and carrying out bombings in the 1990s. the rejection came as relations between old rivals india and pakistan inched towards improvement following a meeting last week between their leaders, the first since last year's militant attack on mumbai in which 166 people were killed. singh was sentenced to death in 1991 for spying and bombings that killed 14 people. his family said he was innocent and had crossed the border into pakistan accidentally in 1990 while he was drunk. pakistani officials said singh was arrested while trying to slip back into india after the bomb blasts. the government suspended his death sentence in may last year after his family visited pakistan and appealed for a pardon. but a three-member bench upheld the sentence, saying they had found no reason to reconsider the original ruling. "there was nothing in the records of the case that could become a basis for reviewing the previous judgment. that's why it has been dismissed," justice raja fayyaz told the court, referring to the appeal. singh's lawyer, rana abdul hamid, failed to turn up in court and was not available for comment after the ruling. former pakistan president pervez musharraf rejected singh's mercy plea in march last year but deferred his execution after a request from the indian government. nuclear-armed india and pakistan have fought three wars since the partition of british-ruled india in 1947 and remain deeply suspicious of each other. india suspended a peace process, begun in 2004, after the attacks by islamist militants on its commercial hub, mumbai, in november. india says pakistan-based militants were involved in the assault but pakistan denies any state agencies were involved. pakistani president asif ali zardari met indian prime minister manmohan singh on the sidelines of a shanghai cooperation group meeting in russia last week. senior officials from the two countries are due to hold further talks to exchange information on terrorism soon, while political leaders are expected to meet in  --- israel has no willingness for peace: syria's assad  damascus, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - syria said on wednesday it could not make peace with israel because the jewish state was not committed to coming to a deal. "achieving peace requires an israeli partner and commitment to international law, united nations resolutions and the land for peace principles," syrian president bashar al-assad said after meeting his greek counterpart karolos papoulias. "this israeli partner does not currently exist," he added. syria has repeatedly said it wants to resume peace talks with israel while demanding a commitment from the jewish state to withdraw from the whole of the golan heights, which have been under israeli occupation for the last 43 years. turkey, which mediated indirect talks between the two foes that were suspended in december 2008, said this month it was still keen to resume mediation. israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu offered in may to talk to syria but indicated he would not make any commitments on land first. his foreign minister, avigdor lieberman, blamed what he termed syrian manoeuvres for not returning to negotiat --- ashraf calls for bnp to be in parliament  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com) - awami league has again called on the main opposition bnp to come back to parliament in the interests of the nation. "let's talk in the parliament, for democracy and the nation," ruling party spokesman syed ashraful islam made the call tuesday, at a pre-rally programme marking awami league's 60th anniversary. "we do not want any more conflict or confrontation among parties," said ashraf. the main opposition party bnp has been absent from parliament since the june 4 start of the current budget session. but even outside parliament the party has voiced its opposition most loudly to india's planned tipaimukh dam. bnp chief khaleda zia has written to indian pm manmohan singh with concerns on the dam's impact in bangladesh. bnp also called for removal of indian high commissioner pinak ranjan chakravarty for what it said was his meddling in the internal affairs of bangladesh. b --- no hasty decision on open-pit mining: adviser  dhaka ,june 23 (bdnews24.com)the prime minister's energy adviser toufiq-e-elahi chowdhury said tuesday any decision to pursue open-pit coal mining in the country would only be made following expert recommendations. "we will consider expert opinions, and will only make a decision that benefits the people," he said at a programme of the seventh anniversary of the publication energy & power. "a decision will be taken considering economic, social, commercial and environmental factors relevant to the mining area," said chowdhury. he said recent increases in load-shedding, particularly at night, are a result of the ongoing heat wave combined with existing limitations with the distribution system. but, he said, the situation will improve after some rainfall. fbcci president annisul huq complained that the more seminars he attended, the more confused he became, saying: "eventually we wonder where we are going and whose speech is authentic." "the whole world is generating power out of coal. so why not us? we have coal resources which we can utilise for power generation," said the president of the country's apex business body. annisul went on to say that the government had won a five-year mandate and should now take a lead in the matter: "the country now expects action from the government; its honeymoon period is over." nepal experiences 18 hours of load-shedding a day, while bhutan meets their power demands by importing from india, added the fbcci chief. dhaka university professor hossain monsur, who opposed open-pit coal exploration during the four party alliance's tenure, made an apparent about turn at the meeting, claiming there was now no alternative to coal exploration. "the government should go for self-funded open-pit coal exploration in barpukuria immediately," said monsur. bdnews24.co --- vieira keen on switch from inter to psg  paris, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - france captain patrick vieira is in talks with paris st germain over a move to the french club from inter milan, psg coach antoine kombouare said on tuesday. "i talked to him over the phone and he wants to join psg very much," kombouare was quoted as saying by french sports daily l'equipe. "obviously, the main problem for us is his wage. he is ready to make an effort but how much?," the new paris coach added. the 33-year-old midfielder told reporters earlier this month that he feared his playing time under inter coach jose mourinho would be reduced next season --- afridi dedicates twenty20 triumph to terror victims  karachi, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan all-rounder shahid afridi dedicated his inspiring performances in the world twenty20 triumph to victims of the conflict in his troubled nation. "throughout the world cup i only thought about winning this for those people who have been affected by terrorism in our country," afridi told reporters on wednesday. afridi, named the player of the semi-final and final, was hoisted by ecstatic fans on their shoulders and garlanded with hundreds of them turning up at the airport to welcome him. pakistan beat sri lanka by eight wickets in the final at lord's on sunday. it was a splendid achievement after the team went without test cricket in 2008 and the international cricket council (icc) moved the 2011 world cup matches out of pakistan due to security concerns. "the troubled conditions back home, the way pakistan is being isolated as a cricket nation, all this spurred the team to win the cup," he said. afridi was disappointed the next world twenty20 in west indies was just nine months away, leaving pakistani fans very little time to savour the triumph. "you don't win the world cup everyday," he said. "i think cricket is now being treated more like a business. it is hard on the players as well." afridi attributed his success with both bat and ball to the motivation to deliver for his country. "the captain reposed confidence in me by promoting me up the order, i could not let him down," he said, referring to batting at number three in the final stages of the tournament. "i kept talking to myself while batting, restraining myself from playing big shots and it worked." however, he was edged out for the player of the tournament accolade by sri lanka's in-form batsman tillekaratne dilshan. "i had runs and wickets and i was a bit disappointed at missing out on the award," he s --- israel releases hamas speaker of parliament  ramallah, west bank, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - israel on tuesday freed the hamas speaker of the palestinian parliament, who was jailed for nearly three years as part of a dragnet that dented the islamist group's political activities in the west bank. aziz dweik's release came after israeli prosecutors failed to persuade a military court last week to extend his prison term, which was set to end in august. dweik had been convicted for belonging to what israel deems a terrorist group. "the palestinians should work on releasing all lawmakers in israeli jails in order to revive parliamentary life," dweik told reporters outside the palestinian legislative council (plc). "i call for the release of all (political) prisoners in gaza and the west bank." israel detained dweik, 60, and dozens of other hamas politicians in the occupied west bank in 2006 shortly after gunmen from the faction and other militants abducted israeli soldier gilad shalit on the gaza strip border. hamas and israel on tuesday denied a palestinian news agency report that shalit's release was also imminent. dweik's reception at the plc highlighted the continuing enmity between hamas and the u.s.-backed fatah faction of president mahmoud abbas, which favors a peace deal with israel. the islamists, shunned by the west for refusing to coexist with the jewish state, seized control of gaza in 2007, driving fatah forces out and prompting abbas to dissolve the hamas-led coalition government that was sworn in after a surprise hamas victory in a 2006 election. talks to reconcile the two have yielded no results since egypt began mediation late last year. on tuesday, there was no sign of them burying the hatchet. fatah employees locked the door of the building shortly before the freed speaker arrived, to be greeted by members of various parliamentary factions. a fatah official said they had not been notified of any event so the workers had ended their shift and gone home. he said hamas misled fatah minister of prisoners affairs issa qaraqe, sending him to the wrong place to greet dweik. abbas's forces, keen to prove their law-and-order mettle to international peace mediators, have recently cracked down on hamas in the west bank. fatah activists in gaza have been the target of hamas round-ups. hamas said 34 of its lawmakers were still in israeli custody. it says scores of supporters are held in west bank jails. dweik has been touted by hamas as a possible replacement for abbas. during his imprisonment, he was taken several times to a hospital in israel, suffering from blood pressure and diabetes. it was unclear if his poor health contributed to his release. --- iran says courts will teach protesters a lesson  tehran, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iranian authorities said they would teach a lesson to "rioters" held in the worst unrest to befall the country since the 1979 islamic revolution. (editors' note: reuters and other foreign media are subject to iranian restrictions on their ability to report, film or take pictures in tehran.) a moderate cleric defeated in this month's disputed elections called on iranians to hold ceremonies on thursday to mourn those killed at protests over the last week. trucks and police in riot gear were deployed on the main squares of tehran on tuesday, but there were no signs of any protest gatherings in the city by midday. the revolutionary guard, loyal to the country's conservative religious establishment, have declared a crackdown on protests triggered by elections that gave president mahmoud ahmadinejad a landslide victory. hundreds have been detained by police using tear gas and batons since results were published on june 13. "those arrested in recent events will be dealt with in a way that will teach them a lesson," the official irna news agency quoted senior judiciary official ebrahim raisi as saying on state television late on monday. he said a special court was studying the cases. "the rioters should be dealt with in an exemplary way and the judiciary will do that," raisi said. two losing candidates, ex-prime minister mirhossein mousavi and pro-reform cleric mehdi karoubi, accuse authorities of vote rigging and have demanded a rerun. but the top legislative body, the guardian council, ruled this out again on tuesday. the troubles have produced the first clear evidence of a public split in the clerical establishment between hardliners and those seeking more liberal policies. an iranian parliamentarian, mahmoud ahmadi, said on tuesday tehran would temporarily recall its ambassador to britain, which the leading oil and gas producer has accused of fomenting trouble. a senior iranian government source did not confirm the report carried by several iranian news agencies. nuclear programme moderate cleric mehdi karoubi maintained pressure on authorities. "karoubi calls on iranians around the country to hold ceremonies on thursday to remember those (killed) at protests," said aide issa saharkhiz. the troubles have erupted against a background of tension between the west and iran, a major factor in regional stability. tehran's hardline leadership is locked in dispute with western powers over its nuclear programme, which it says is intended for power generation but which the west suspects could yield nuclear weapons that could destabilise the region. state television said more than 450 people were detained during clashes with police in tehran on saturday in which at least 10 people were killed. in new york, u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon urged an immediate stop to the use of force against civilians and said iran should respect civil rights in dealing with protests. people in tehran, in a gesture of defiance first used in the 1979 islamic revolution and now adopted by pro-reform protesters, again chanted "allahu akbar" (god is greatest) from their rooftops at nightfall on monday. supporters of mousavi, who says he seeks to purge the islamic republic of lies and deceit exposed during the elections, gathered in tehran's haft-e tir square on monday in defiance of a ban on demonstrations. iran's state press tv channel said they were dispersed. residents said riot police, some on motorbikes, and members of the religious basij militia were out in force. one witness said that from his balcony he had seen a group of protesters chanting slogans being attacked by the basij, who dragged the demonstrators out of a house to which they had fled. "the basiji were really aggressive and swearing at me to go inside," said the witness, who declined to be identified. iranian state television said on tuesday tehran had been calm for a second night. "the presence of police and basij forces in parts of the city has raised people's feeling of security," irib said. mousavi called on sunday for new protests by his supporters in open defiance of senior religious leaders. u.n. reaction a u.n. statement issued by secretary-general ban ki-moon's office said he urged "the authorities to respect fundamental civil and political rights, especially the freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of information." ban urged the government and opposition to resolve their differences peacefully through dialogue and legal means. iranians on social networking sites called for mourning for "neda," a young woman shot dead on saturday. footage of her death has been watched by thousands on the internet and her image has become an icon of the protests. witnesses said security officials prevented her funeral from going ahead, blocking roads leading to a central tehran mosque where the ceremony was to have taken place. "police were spraying paint on the cars of those who insisted on driving toward the mosque," said one witness. her fiance caspian makan told bbc persian tv that neda agha-soltan had been caught up accidentally in the protests. "she was near the area, a few streets away, from where the main protests were taking place, near the amir abad area. she was with her music teacher, sitting in a car and stuck in traffic," it quoted him as saying. "she was feeling very tired and very hot. she got out of the car for just a few minutes." --- asians worry about money, but still indulge: poll  singapore, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - times are tough these days and money is a worry, but many asians believe the best way to weather the global economic crisis is to indulge in little luxuries, according to a new regional survey. the economic downturn started a long way away from asia, but it has caused 86 percent of people in the world's most populous region to worry about their finances, and spurred 80 percent to save for the future, according to the annual "eye on asia" survey, by global marketing communications firm grey group. but 82 percent of respondents also believe that indulgence was the best way to beat the stress of modern life, and that spending time with family, short holidays, spa sessions and small luxury items were among their favourite ways to relax. nearly 70 percent of respondents said life should contain as many luxuries as possible. "there's no more taking a month off and spending it at a luxury resort," charu harish, regional communications planning director for grey group asia pacific, told reuters. "people are looking for as many little luxuries as possible to beat the stress, and that involves more short breaks, most likely with the family, and a bigger focus on luxury." the survey is one of the largest snapshots of opinions and trends in asia, polling more than 33,000 people from 16 countries: australia, bangladesh, china, hong kong, india, indonesia, japan, korea, malaysia, new zealand, the philippines, singapore, sri lanka, taiwan, thailand and vietnam. while the poll found that an overall 76 percent of asians were optimistic about the future and some 40 percent believe their household finances will improve in the next year, the regional averages did not reflect discrepancies between developed and developing countries -- or nations that have been hit badly, and not so badly, by the credit crisis. while nearly 40 percent of asians polled said they were less content than a year ago, harish said people from india, china and vietnam were the most likely to shrug off the downturn, while respondents from the more developed singapore, hong kong, australia and japan were the least positive about the future. "but what this shows is that asia, overall, remains a huge opportunity for marketers," she explained. "people here are not as sceptical as in the west, nor as negative. asians are keen for more fun," she said, adding the survey showed 90 percent wished their life had more fun. the survey, which also looked at shopping habits in the downturn, divided the asians polled into five retail "tribes". nearly a quarter said they sought value-for-money products now, while just over a fifth, especially in china and india, want new brands, variety and a distinctive retail experience. the least number -- 16 percent -- put function first. not surprisingly, 90 percent of the new-brand seekers regard shopping as therapy, closely followed by status-seekers who want their goods to reflect their wealth and social standing. "people overall are being more choosy on what they spend on, as they are saving for the future," harish said. "better value for money is the overriding trend in asia, where 95 percent of respondents are saying that is what they seek." the poll, conducted by grey group's sister company the kantar group, was based on face-to-face interviews and an online questionnaire and involved people aged between 18 an --- al moves on textbook revisions  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)education minister nurul islam nahid said tuesday that the full text of sheikh mujibur rahman's march 7 speech is to be included in secondary school textbooks from the next session. "mujibur's declaration of independence, according to the constitution, and some other new writings are also to be included in the books," nahid told a press conference after receiving the recommendations of a committee tasked to settle the secondary school syllabus. his remarks came also in the wake of a landmark high court ruling that said mujib, not zia rahman, proclaimed the country's independence and any alternate version of the proclamation should be erased from history and textbooks. "we have to entirely revise the textbooks to provide a world class education, and it warrants more time," said nahid. "as a matter of urgency, we have decided to print new textbooks for the upcoming session containing accurate accounts of the bangladesh liberation war," he said. committee chairperson momtajuddin ahmed said: "we were on the wrong track. the father of the nation and the history of bangladesh were presented in a distorted way." "we have recommended the inclusion of the march 7 speech of bangabandhu in bengali literature books for class eight. the declaration of independence, according to the constitution, will be included in social science books," said momtajuddin. elaborating on the changes, committee member prof ratan siddiqi said some new textbooks would replace others in the syllabus for students of classes six to nine. these include, 'rokte lekha muktijuddher golpo' (stories of the liberation war written in blood), while 'charupath' will be replaced by committee recommended 'ekjon muktijoddhar chithi' (letter of a freedom fighter). in the book anandopath for class seven, we suggest replacing ibrahim khan's 'bhanga kulor golpo' (story of a broken winnowing fan) with ronesh dasgupta's 'mallyadan' (to garland), said prof ratan. the nine-member committee was formed on april 30 to look into accounts of the liberation war in secondary level textbooks. bdnews2 --- us renews sanctions against north korea  washington, june 25 (bdnews24.com/reuters)- president barack obama on wednesday renewed sanctions against north korea, declaring that its nuclear program posed a national security risk to the united states and a danger to the korean peninsula. the reclusive communist state has rebuffed u.s. efforts to engage it diplomatically and staged a second nuclear test on may 25 that was internationally condemned and led to the imposition of tougher sanctions the united nations security council. "the current existence and risk of the proliferation of weapons-usable fissile material on the korean peninsula constitute a continuing unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the united states," obama said in a notice to congress. the expanded u.n. sanctions ban all weapons exports from north korea and most arms imports. u.n. member states are also authorized to inspect north korean sea, air and land cargo and destroy any goods that violate the sanctions. obama has said the u.s. military is prepared for the possibility that north korea may attempt to launch a missile toward hawaii in response to the new u.n. sanctions. his decision to renew separate u.s. restrictions on pyongyang was expected and followed a white house meeting last week with south korean president lee myung-bak. obama promised then to end a cycle of allowing impoverished north korea to create a nuclear crisis and then granting concessions in the form of food, fuel and other incentives to get pyongyang to back down. the north previously has reneged on promises it made in return for such aid --- siddeshwari, john wilson in school football final  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  siddeshwari girls high school and sir john wilson school moved into the final of the citycell dhaka metropolis women's school football tournament on tuesday. the final is billed for thursday at the bangabandhu national stadium. siddeshwari girls high school outplayed viqarunnessa 3-1 in the tie-breaker after regulation time produced a 2-2 deadlock at the sultana kamal women's sports complex ground. the winners first went ahead in the 14th minute with a strike from mridul, but viqarunnessa bounced back four minutes later to level the score with morium finding the net. siddeshwari restored their lead after santona struck in the 32nd minute before pinki slotted the equaliser in the 38th minute and the match rolled into a penalty shoot-out. sathi, zhumur and mridul converted for siddeshwari while pinki for viqarunnessa. in the second semi-final, sir john wilson school registered an emphatic 3-0 win over azimpur girl's high school with naoshin striking twice and maisha netted the other. bd --- real still interested in liverpool's alonso  madrid, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - real madrid still hope to prise spanish midfielder xabi alonso away from liverpool, director general jorge valdano was quoted as saying on tuesday. "we have possibilities there but i don't want to say anything that will make the negotiation more difficult. we will wait a reasonable amount of time," valdano told sports daily as. valdano said real could also be interested in another member of liverpool's spanish international contingent, alvaro arbeloa, who came through the youth team at real. "the lad only has a year left on his contract with liverpool and this gives us more possibilities," valdano said. "he can play in two or three positions and this versatility is good. he is another option to evaluate. --- thousands demand justice over kashmir rape, deaths  srinagar, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - thousands of people shouting "we want justice" marched in south kashmir on wednesday to protest against the rape and murder of two muslim women, officials said. the latest protest comes two days after authorities suspended four police officers and a forensic science official for allegedly destroying evidence while investigating the crimes against the women in may. the deaths triggered massive anti-india demonstrations across muslim-majority kashmir valley. residents say the two women, aged 17 and 22, were abducted, raped and killed by security forces. "we want freedom", the angry protesters shouted in shopian in south kashmir, where bodies of the two women were found on may 29. anti-india protests have raged in the region since. two protesters have died and hundreds been injured in clashes with the po --- us national shot dead in nouakchott  nouakchott, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a us national was shot dead in the mauritanian capital nouakchott tuesday by an unidentified gunman, a western security source said. mauritania straddles black and arab africa and is an ally of the west in its fight against al qaeda, which has been increasingly active in northwest africa and the sahara desert. "we can confirm that an american has been killed this morning," the source said, without indicating who might be behind the attack. there was no immediate claim of responsibility. in december 2007, four french tourists were killed by the north african wing of al qaeda, and the isareli embassy was attacked in 2008. the us ambassador to mauritania did not comment --- allen stanford dentention hearing set for thursday  houston, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - allen stanford, the texas financier accused of a $7 billion fraud, is due to appear at a detention hearing in houston on thursday, a spokeswoman for the u.s. attorney's office in houston said on tuesday. stanford is due in u.s. district court at 1000 cdt, she said. stanford was indicted last week on 21 counts of fraud, conspiracy and obstruction charges. federal prosecutors have accused him running a massive scheme involving certificates of deposit issued by his offshore bank in antigua. stanford was arrested at his girlfriend's home in virginia on thursday. he has been in federal custody while making the trip back to houston where the criminal charges were fi --- air france crash searchers say no black box found  paris, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - investigators have not yet found flight recorders of an air france airliner that crashed this month, france's air accident authority said on tuesday after a report that signals from the recorders had been picked up. the website of france's le monde daily reported that signals had been detected and a mini submarine had been launched to try to locate the "black box" recorders that could contain vital clues to explain the june 1 crash, in which 228 people died. but the bea, the french air accident authority, said searchers had not heard any signals they could be sure came from the black boxes. "no signals transmitted by the flight recorders' locator beacons have been validated up to now," it said in a statement. "in the context of the sea searches that are under way, work is undertaken on a regular basis that is aimed at eliminating any doubts related to any sounds that may be heard, and any findings will be made public," it said. everyone aboard died when the air france airbus 330 crashed into the atlantic en route from rio de janeiro to paris on june 1. a bea spokeswoman noted that many sounds are detected on the seabed and said investigators had picked up numerous signals that had turned out to be false leads. locator beacons, known as "pingers," on the flight recorders send an electronic impulse every second for at least 30 days. the signal can be heard up to 2 km (1.2 miles) away. french vessels involved in the search operation include a nuclear submarine with advanced sonar equipment and a research ship equipped with mini submarines. the remote location in the atlantic as well as the depth and surface of the ocean floor have made the search especially difficult and the wreckage could lie anywhere between 1 km (0.6 miles) and 4 km (2.5 miles) down. --- pakistan zardari: uk must do more to combat militants  london, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan's president asif ali zardari said on tuesday britain has to tackle its own issues of deprivation to stop the radicalisation of british muslims. in an interview with itv's "news at ten", he rejected the suggestion it was pakistan's role to win the hearts and minds of radicalised british muslims, although he said his country would arrest any radical briton visiting pakistan and send them back to the uk. "the appeal has to be on the other side," he was due to say in the programme to be aired on tuesday evening. "i think britain has to take the responsibility and make sure that they do not feel the deprivation they have been. because we all know this is a state of mind that comes up from some kind of this. "and one has to fight it in britain and not in pakistan." british security services say there have been pakistani links to almost all of the dozen major terrorism plots foiled since 2001, including the london bombings in 2005. sky news, citing unnamed sources, earlier this year said pakistan's intelligence service had identified more than 20 britons who had been trained by militants in pakistan and had returned to britain, where they posed a security threat. in the interview, zardari denied any knowledge of militant training camps in pakistan and said it was an "old thought" among british intelligence that thousands of radicals were arriving in britain. "i don't think there are any known camps that you know of or we know of or british intelligence know of that exist," he said. "of course they exist underground -- the mafia exists underground in britain -- and wherever we find it we crush it ... but i don't think there is a particular place which we know of that still exists." the president also rejected british prime minister gordon brown's description of the border between afghanistan and pakistan as the "crucible for global terrorism". "i think sometimes people say things they don't understand or mean but i think his concern is genuine and i appreciate the concern," zardari said. --- retiree made new head of bsti  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  a retired civil servant, ak fazlul ahad, has been appointed director general of the bangladesh standards and testing institute (bsti) on a one-year contract, an establishment ministry order said wednesday. the former additional secretary has been retroactively promoted to the rank of deputy secretary, said the ministry order. fazlul was retired during the tenure of the last bnp-led administration. in a separate order, former navy captain abu taher golam mohammad sarcar, was appointed principal of chittagong marine fisheries academy. he succeeds navy commander m hasan zaman khan in the post.  --- mashrafe sets his target  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  after being appointed captain of the national cricket team on tuesday for the series against west indies and zimbabwe, mashrafee bin mortaza has emphasised the need to improve the level of mental confidence. "we need to improve the team's mental confidence as it seemed to me during the last twenty20 match against ireland that we could not make runs under pressure. i think we could have made more runs against any other big team in that situation what happened against a low team like as ireland," said mashrafee in his reaction. "it is a big honour to get the captaincy of a national team and i feel pretty good after being appointed the captain of the bangladesh cricket team," said the 25-year-old pacer. mashrafee is the 15th captain of bangladesh as well as the first-ever among pace bowers and he wants to avail the opportunity utilising his experience. "i don't have so much experience of captaincy though i have just guided abahani in the domestic league. besides, i had also no such ideal captain to follow, but i want to utilise my eight-year playing experience while leading bangladesh," said the pace spearhead. knowing it very well that the captain as well as the coach are responsible for the failure of the team, mashrafee said, "yes, it is a difficult time, but i hope everything will go in the right direction." mashrafee believes things had changed more after losing to ireland though bangladesh put up fighting spirit against better sides in the world twenty20. "i don't think the matter of losing to ireland will affect the players much and i believe they will return back to the position where they are supposed to be if they get the mental support." mashrafee also hoped for better performances against west indies and zimbabwe in his first assignment. "i want to take it one-by-one and the focus is now on the west indies tour and if we can play some good matches against west indies, then it will help us against zimbabwe." the captain also praised the leadership of the previous skipper saying: "a few tours were really good under ashraful's captaincy. we played some close matches against good sides. i also learnt something from him and definitely it will help us in future." "i said it before that ashraful is something different for bangladesh. see what happens when sachin tendulkar is in the indian side, many of them get inspired and ashraful is also like tendulkar," mashrafee said. "if he is not in the squad, many of us feel bad, even lose their confidence. ashraful is such a cricketer who suits every format of cricket." ashraful congratulated the new captain and vice-captain and hoped they did well in the west indies. "i have come here to congratulate mashrafee and shakib as the captain and the vice-captain of the national team and i hope we will play fine cricket in the west indies though we could not play well in the world twenty20. "mashrafee and i together played under-17-level cricket in 2000 and since then we are good friends. besides, he guided abahani to clinch premier cricket league and it is a positive step for him. i will extend my support to him as much as possible." said ashraful. vice-captain shakib al hasan saw nothing new in the new responsibility as he was also a member of the team's five-player leadership group. bd --- orders for big-ticket items post surprise gain  washington, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - an unexpected jump in us durable goods orders last month backed hopes that the economy was healing and this message was reinforced by a pick-up in home mortgage applications last week. new orders for long-lasting us manufactured goods rose by a much stronger-than-expected 1.8 percent in may, commerce department data on wednesday showed. analysts polled by reuters had forecast durable goods orders would decline 0.6 percent last month. may's increase, the third gain in 4 months, followed a revised 1.8 percent gain in april. us stock index futures rose on the much stronger-than-expected durables report, the dollar pared gains and us government bond prices fell, although trading was also somewhat overshadowed by a federal reserve policy statement due later. "the economy is bottoming here, and we're looking for the fed to maybe change its statement slightly and maybe start to suggest a more neutral balance of risk. a nod, basically, to an exit strategy," said kim rupert at action economics llc in san francisco. the fed is due to deliver its policy decision about 2:15 p.m. edt. it is expected to leave interest rates unchanged in a range between zero and 0.25 percent, and many economists think it will lean against rate hike speculation by emphasizing they will stay low for an extended period. the u.s. central bank is also likely to stress that the economy remains fragile, although acknowledging signs that activity is picking up here and there. manufacturing, which accounts for about one-third of the economy, provides a good barometer for overall business health, and the may durable goods orders report showed solid gains. new orders excluding transportation advanced 1.1 percent last month, compared with a forecast for a 0.4 percent decline, buoyed in part by a 7.7 percent rise in new machinery orders. this was the largest percentage increase in that category since march 2008, the commerce department said. new orders excluding defense were 1.4 percent higher, versus a reuters' poll prediction for a 0.4 percent drop. more importantly, non-defense capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched proxy for business spending, jumped 4.8 percent in may, the largest gain since september 2004. may's sharp rise compared with forecasts for a 0.6 percent drop and followed a revised 2.9 percent fall in april. "the numbers point to a stabilization, but certainly not a robust recovery," said keith hembre, chief economist at first american funds in minneapolis. homes on the rebound a separate report showed that us mortgage applications climbed last week from a seven-month low, the mortgage bankers association said, adding to emerging signs that the three-year housing market collapse may be abating. demand for home loans rose after four straight weekly declines, as us mortgage rates dipped and more borrowers applied to buy houses as well as refinance. the trade group's seasonally adjusted mortgage applications index, which includes both purchase and refinance loans, rose 6.6 percent last  --- army chief asks rookie officers to uphold army's image  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com) - army chief general abdul mubin on wednesday asked newly sworn-in officers to uphold the image of the bangladesh army through professionalism and firm character. "the sacred duty to protect the independence and sovereignty of the nation was handed to you from today," said the general. he was speaking at a ceremony newly commissioned officers at the bangladesh military academy situated at bhatiary in chittagong. battalion senior under officer sm hasnat ferdaus was selected as top cadet in the 60th bma long-term course and awarded the sword of honour, while company senior under officer wasim akram received the gold medal of the army chief. a total of 73 cadets were commissioned into the army at the ceremony. of these, 61 were male and five were female cadets of the 60th bma long-term course and seven were male cadets of the 31st bma special course. b --- us drones prowl over pakistan's south waziristan  wana, pakistan, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us drones prowled the sky over pakistan's south waziristan on wednesday, a day after one of the aircraft attacked a stronghold of pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud, killing about 70 militants. the us attack came as the pakistani army is preparing an all-out assault on al qaeda ally mehsud, who has been accused of orchestrating a campaign of bombings in pakistan, including the 2007 assassination of former prime minister benazir bhutto. the push into south waziristan on the afghan border looms as the army is finishing off an offensive in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad, launched after taliban gains raised fears for nuclear-armed pakistan's future. pakistan is a vital ally for the united states as it strives to defeat al qaeda and stabilise afghanistan, where thousands of extra us soldiers are arriving. the pilotless us drone strike late on tuesday, on a funeral for one of six militants killed in a similar strike earlier in the day, suggests closer coordination between the united states and pakistan. but pakistan, which officially objects to such strikes, is unlikely to confirm that in a country where many people are suspicious of the alliance with the united states in its global campaign against militancy. (for a factbox on us drone strikes, click on [id:nisl468987]) intelligence officials said late on tuesday 45 people had been killed in the drone attack as mourners were leaving the funeral. on wednesday they said about 70 people had been killed. a taliban spokesman said 65 had been killed. a taliban official said mehsud had been in the area but was not hurt. security officials and villagers said the taliban had sealed off the site. "bodies are still lying there and the taliban are not allowing anybody close while their men are coming and going in vehicles," resident ghulam rasool told reuters by telephone. the militants also fired at us drones flying over the remote, mountainous region. "militants fired with machineguns at two drones in makeen and laddah, forcing them to fly back," said another resident, referring to two areas under mehsud's control. taliban claim killing rival the military has been launching air strikes on mehsud's bases over the past week or more while soldiers have been securing main roads into the region, sealing off his stronghold. a military convoy, including tanks and armoured personnel carriers, headed towards the area on wednesday, a reuters reporter in the region said. tuesday's drone attacks happened hours after a gunman working as a guard killed a rival of mehsud who had spoken out strongly against the taliban chief. on wednesday, taliban spokesman wali-ur-rehman said the islamist group had claimed responsibility for killing the rival militant commander, qari zainuddin. the killing of zainuddin, in the north west frontier town of dera ismail khan, showed mehsud's reach and would be a setback for government efforts to win over ethnic pashtun tribal factions for the campaign against mehsud, analysts said. nearly 1,600 militants and more than 100 soldiers have been killed in the swat offensive, according to the military. there has been no independent confirmation of those casualty figures. the imminent army operation in south waziristan has forced about 45,000 people to flee the region and join about two million people uprooted by fighting in swat and other areas. the offensive against the taliban has widespread support among politicians and the public but a fragile civilian government could see that backing evaporate if the displaced are seen to be suffering un --- india's dancing skipper in limbo as dispute rumbles on  chennai, india, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india captain bhaichung bhutia's one-year deal with east bengal has been put on hold as his public war-of-words with present employers mohun bagan continues to rumble on, domestic media reported on tuesday. the kolkata-based club slapped a six-month suspension on the talismanic striker at the start of the month, saying he ignored his training duties to appear in a reality television dance show. bhutia signed for east bengal on monday but the move to his former club is still awaiting clearance from the regional association, who said the player needed to resolve the issues with mohun bagan before he could leave, the telegraph reported. "i want to play for them (east bengal) from the very first match of the season," bhutia told the paper. however, bhutia's three-year contract with mohun bagan runs for another year and the suspension prevents him from moving to another club. "i may or may not play this year but for the rest of my career i will be an east bengal player," he added. "i know there are some officials at bagan who want to finish my career but i will fight it out. i know that good will prevail over evil." bhutia is the face of indian soccer and is seen as the key to the country's hopes of a good showing at the 2011 asian cup --- new acc chief defends caretaker crackdown  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)new anticorruption commission chairman golam rahman says the crackdown the graft watchdog carried out under the 2007-2008 caretaker government was right. "the antigraft drive was necessary," rahman told a press conference on wednesday after he joined office. many people thought that they were above the law. but the commission has proved the notion wrong, he said. "whoever commits corruption will have to get punishment." asked whether the acc action was exaggerated in the name of antigraft drive, rahman said: "many thought so. but i personally don't think so." a shaking was required at that time, rahman said. "there will be no compromise with corruption. i will do my job without feeling any pressure. rahman, however, said the commission will not harass anyone. on the charges against prime minister sheikh hasina and opposition chief khaleda zia pressed during the caretaker government, he said: "they got justice in people's court." many people of the ruling and opposition parties alleged that the acc drive had harassed them. asked about the issue, the new chairman said: "it should be proved that they were victim of injustice. the court will prove whether the charges brought against them by the commission is right or wrong." on the withdrawal of corruption cases on the grounds that those were filed for political persecution, rahman said: "steps will be taken in line with law. we will consider if any injustice is done to anybody." the recommendations for case withdrawal have come only from the ruling party. he was asked what will be happen to those of the opposition party. "i will consider the cases that will come to me," rahman said. at the start of the press conference the new chief was introduced to reporters and a briefing on his working experience was given. the government on april 30 appointed rahman, chairman of bangladesh energy regulatory commission, as the new chief of the graft watchdog. he succeeded hasan mashhud chowdhury who resigned on personal grounds saying the acc needed a new leadership to bring swiftness to its work. rahman, a former pakistan civil service officer who served as commerce secretary and secretary at the prime minister's office, is the third head of the "independent" commission since it was created nearly four and a half years ago. he was made chairman of bangladesh energy regulatory commission years after he ended his regular civil service career as a secretary. rahman began his career as a teacher and taught economics at dhaka university in the late 1960s. bdne --- annan optimistic about climate pact prospects  geneva, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former united nations secretary-general kofi annan said on tuesday he was optimistic that the world could agree on a climate change accord with the support of the us administration of barack obama. in his opening remarks to the global humanitarian forum, annan said the clock was ticking for the world to avert extreme storms, floods and droughts that will intensify with global warming. "every year we delay, the greater the damage, the more extensive the human misery," he told an audience at the intercontinental hotel in geneva, also warning of "cost, pain and disruption of inevitable action later". his group's two-day meeting has drawn together heads of un agencies with government officials and experts for talks on practical ways to cut greenhouse gas emissions that scientists expect to stoke global warming and cause rising sea levels and loss of food production. annan, 71, said he hoped their discussions on "the greatest environmental and humanitarian concern of our age" would help set the stage for a deal in copenhagen in december on a successor to the kyoto accord. "a new president and new administration in the united states have demonstrated their seriousness about combating climate change. given that the us is the greatest source of emissions, this raises optimism for copenhagen and beyond," annan said. more than 190 countries will meet in copenhagen to find a successor to the kyoto protocol, which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases. economic stimulus efforts in washington, brussels and around the world in response to the global economic downturn have also pumped investment into low-carbon energy and alternative technologies that could create jobs and boost sustainable projects, annan said. climate experts have warned pledges by industrialised nations to cut emissions by 2020 fall far short of the deep cuts widely advocated to avert dangerous climate change. overall emissions cuts promised by industrialised nations in the run-up to december's meeting now average between 10 and 14 percent below 1990 levels, according to reuters calculations. the un climate panel says cuts must be in the 25-40 percent range below 1990 levels to avoid the worst effects of climate change --- farroque gets bail in assets case  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)opposition chief whip zainul abdin farroque secured bail on wednesday after turning himself in to a dhaka court being charged with not submitting his wealth information to the anticorruption commission. he turned himself in, eight years after the case was lodged, before dhaka divisional judge golam murtaza majumdar. in may 26, 1999 the then anticorruption bureau asked farroque to submit his assets statement. he received that notice at july 9 of that year but did not provide information within 45 days. on jan 28, 2000, the anticorruption bureau filed a case against him at mirpur police station. he received bail from dhaka metropolitan sessions judge's court on june 26, 2001 but did not appear in court later. on jan 11, 2002, the court issued an arrest warrant against him. farroque's lawyers mahbub uddin khokon and sanaullah miah said he had not been informed of the state of the case, which was why he did not appear in court on scheduled dates. another lawyer, taherul islam, said there were seven cases against farroque and he secured bail in all the cases from the lower court. bdnew --- perez has got it wrong again at real, says sacchi  madrid, july 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - real madrid's signings of kaka and cristiano ronaldo prove president florentino perez has not learned from his past mistakes, former real director of football arrigo sacchi said. "watch out, because florentino has got it wrong before signing great players without thinking about if they fit into the footballing project, if they complement each other, and thinking only about if they sell shirts," sacchi was quoted as telling radio marca. the former ac milan and italy coach worked under perez during his first stint in the presidency earlier in the decade, but quit after a year in the post in 2005 complaining of a lack of freedom in the role --- maoist insurgency can hurt industry in india: experts  new delhi, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the growing maoist insurgency in india over large swathes of the mineral-rich countryside could soon hurt some industrial investment plans just as the country suffers an economic slowdown. the government banned the communist party of india (maoist) on monday, bracketing it with islamist militant groups, but experts said the ban would have little impact in the battle against the rebels. on the ground, police fight maoist insurgents with outdated weapons and are often outnumbered by rebels, who are skilled in jungle warfare and are well-equipped with rocket launchers, automatic rifles and explosives. last week, hundreds of maoists declared the town of lalgarh about 170 km (100 miles) from kolkata, capital of west bengal, as a "liberated zone", sparking unease among investors. while the economic impact may be small compared with india's trillion dollar economy, the insurgency and the sense that it is worsening signals that india does not fully control its own territory and adds to risks for companies mulling investments. the lalgarh incident worried the country's third-largest steel producer, jsw steel, which is setting up a $7-billion, 10-million tonne steel plant near lalgarh. "we are waiting and watching, so are the others," biswadip gupta, chief executive officer of the company's west bengal operations, told reuters on tuesday. "on top of the economic woes, you have the problem of maoists now. it is very jittery," gupta said by telephone from kolkata. prime minister manmohan singh has described maoists as the biggest internal security threat since independence, and this year more than 300 people, mostly police, have been killed. business already hit the maoists started their armed struggle in west bengal's naxalbari town in the late 1967, and have expanded their support among villagers by tapping into resentment at the government's recent pro-industry push. the rebels, estimated to have 22,000 fighters, operate in large parts of the eastern, central and southern countryside, and officials say they are now spreading to cities and bigger towns. the maoists, who are fighting for the rights of poor farmers and the disenfranchised, regularly attack railway lines and factories, aiming to cripple economic activity. "it is still a law and order problem, but it has not been taken seriously and can have serious consequences if not dealt with properly," said anjan roy, analyst at the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry, referring to growth of industry. the effect of the maoist insurgency has already taken its toll on business. in mineral-rich orissa, bauxite production at state-run national aluminium co ltd (nalco) has fallen by 20 percent since an april attack by maoists in one of their mines. the company has now reduced the storage of explosives at its mines, fearing attacks from the rebels. "we are more vulnerable and we have to remain alert," said p.k. mahapatra, the alumina company's executive director of mines and refinery. a strike by maoists in east and central india, against police action in lalgarh, has hit supplies of iron ore and coal, a senior railway official said. "exports have also been hit and if supplies get cut off in this manner, at least three steel plants in the region will be greatly affected soon," soumitra majumdar, spokesman for the south eastern railways, said from kolkata. rebels sided with farmers during violent protests by farmers, which forced the scrapping of a tata motors' nano car plant and a $3 billion chemicals hub complex in west bengal. "existing industry may survive, but new money will not come in very easily and investors will be very scared unless the state does something quickly to control the maoists," said ajai sahni of the institute of conflict management, a new delhi-based think-tank --- a few extra pounds can add years to your life: study  new york, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - carrying a little extra weight may actually be good for you, according to a canadian study that showed a few pounds appear to protect people from an early death. researchers found that while underweight and extremely obese people die earlier than people of a normal weight, people who are slightly overweight actually live longer than those of a normal weight. the findings of the new study were published online in the journal obesity by researchers at statistics canada, kaiser permanente center for health research, portland state university, oregon health & science university, and mcgill university. "it's not surprising that extreme underweight and extreme obesity increase the risk of dying, but it is surprising that carrying a little extra weight may give people a longevity advantage," researcher david feeny from the kaiser permanente center for health research said in a statement. but fellow researcher mark kaplan, professor of community health at portland state university, said while a few extra pounds may protect older people as their health declines, that did not mean people of normal weight should try to add bulk. "our study only looked at mortality, not at quality of life, and there are many negative health consequences associated with obesity, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes," said kaplan. the study was based on examining the relationship between body mass index and death among 11,326 adults in canada over a 12-year period using data from the national population health survey. during the study period, from 1994/1995 through 2006/2007, underweight people were 70 percent more likely than people of normal weight to die, and extremely obese people were 36 percent more likely to die. but overweight individuals were 17 percent less likely to die. the relative risk for obese people was nearly the same as for people of normal weight. the researchers said this was the first large canadian study to show that people who are overweight may actually live longer than those of normal weight. an earlier study, conducted in the united states and published in 2005 in the journal of the american medical association, showed similar results. --- slum walls raise suspicion in rio  rio de janeiro, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - when residents of rio de janeiro's mammoth rocinha slum heard of government plans to build a wall around parts of their community, opposition to the idea quickly mounted. the wall would be an "ecobarrier" aimed at curbing the unchecked and damaging expansion of the "favela" slums into rio's lush tropical forest, state officials told them. but in the brazilian city tainted by inequality and violence and sharply divided between hillside slum dwellers and middle-class residents, many in rocinha saw something more sinister in the plan for a 9.8-foot-high (3-meter-high) barrier. "the wall represents a ghetto, an apartheid, the end of the communication between people, so we started to fight against the wall," said antonio ferreira de mello, the head of a rocinha residents' association. "there are other ways to prevent the growth of favelas into the forest." fierce opposition in rocinha forced officials to scale back the planned wall there, but plans are in place to build more than 8.7 miles of walls around rocinha and the other 12 slums identified as endangering nearby forests. construction began in march on one section and so far a few hundred yards (meters) has been completed. critics have drawn parallels with the berlin and israel-palestine walls, saying it is the latest step in a security policy that criminalizes the slum dwellers who make up about a fifth of rio's population of 6 million. brazil's secretary of human rights paulo vannuchi said that "the idea of a wall is never a good idea." some argue environmental concerns are masking the government's security agenda and lack of a coherent policy to contain the rapid expansion of rio's favelas in recent years. the population of rio's slums grew by nearly a quarter from 1991 to a little over 1 million in 2000, the latest data available from the ibge national statistics office showed. "the fundamental issues of these communities will never be resolved through walls. to the contrary, the issues will only be resolved through the slum's integration into the city," said jorge luiz barbosa, a professor at fluminense federal university who also heads a favela support group. hidden agenda? many of rio's hundreds of slums are controlled by heavily armed drug gangs that have further alienated them from the rest of the beach-side city. despite regular, violent raids on slums, police have largely failed to bring them under control. the city's forest is sometimes used by gangs as a refuge and as a training ground, adding to suspicions that security is the main reason for the walls. recommendations by some officials in 2004 to build walls for security purposes triggered a public outcry. the choice of location for the walls has also raised some eyebrows. of the 13 communities, 12 are in the wealthy southern district, home to the city's glitziest homes, restaurants and its famous beaches. walls are only planned for one community in the city's western zone, even though analysts say those slums are expanding at an even faster pace. "all of this contributed to at least the suspicion that there is a public security agenda that is very different from the environmental agenda," said ignacio cano, a sociologist and professor at university of the state of rio de janeiro. officials are keen to spruce up rio's unruly image and tackle its crime problems as it prepares to be a host city for the 2014 world cup and campaigns for the 2016 olympics. but they are adamant that the walls are purely aimed at protecting the forest, which by 2008 had shrunk to 18 percent of its original size, according to environment group sos mata atlantica. comparisons to berlin or israel are ridiculous, they say. "there was never an intention to put anyone in a ghetto or to separate. that doesn't exist," said icaro moreno junior, head of rio state's public works company. "what's the function of the wall around your house, my house, all houses? the function is to define limits. up to here you can grow, beyond is the forest." housing shortage experts say the root problem is a severe housing shortage affecting rio and the whole of brazil. under the government's flagship infrastructure program, known by the portuguese acronym pac, the federal authorities plan to build some 3,616 homes in four different rio slums, according to rio's secretary of public works. the government also announced a 34 billion reais ($17.3 billion) housing plan for low-income families in the country in march, aiming to build 1 million homes by 2011. but critics say they are a drop in the bucket in a country with a 7.2 million deficit of houses and a population that is estimated at more than 190 million people, up from 169.8 million in 2000. they say there is little political will, either locally or nationally, for a more comprehensive approach -- a housing policy that would provide alternatives to more construction in the slums. "we haven't had a housing policy in rio for decades," said cano. "social inclusion needs a level of economic, social and political investment that doesn't exist nowadays. we also have unfortunately a ... political system where these slums have no political representation." brainstorming with local residents could have provided alternatives to marking out so-called eco-limits with walls, critics say. after talks with officials, the rocinha slum plans to mark some of the limits with trails and a park. despite the strong criticism from non-government groups and some residents, other slum dwellers have welcomed the walls and the rare show of attention from the authorities. neuza maria alves, a resident of the dona marta slum under the gaze of rio's christ the redeemer statue, complained the wall would block her access to herbs and fruits in the forest but said it could be a good thing if it prevents more people from moving into her neighborhood. "it would only be socially isolating if they put up walls (on the streets) that blocked access to the slums," the 56-year-old housekeeper said at the front door of her wooden shack. ($1=1.967 r --- birth defects in china's shanxi show human price of coal  gaojiagou, china june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - ten-year old yilong is already a statistic. born at the center of china's coal industry, the boy is mentally handicapped and is unable to speak. he is one of many such children in shanxi province, where coal has brought riches to a few, jobs for many, and environmental pollution that experts say has led to a high number of babies born with birth defects. experts say coal mining and processing has given shanxi a rate of birth defects six times higher than china's national average, which is already high by global standards. "they looked normal when they were born. but they were still unable to talk or walk over a year later," said farmer hu yongliang, 38, whose two older children are mentally handicapped. "they learnt to walk at the age of six or seven. they are very weak. nobody knows what the problem is." hu's thirteen-year-old daughter yimei can only say one word, while her brother yilong is unable to talk at all. the two spend most of the day playing in their small courtyard, where their mother wang caiying tends to their every need and tries to shield them from the neighbours' prejudice. "i never let them go out, i don't want people to laugh at my children. they stay in this courtyard every day," said wang, who looks older than her 36 years. "i am especially worried about my son. he doesn't know how to take care of himself. i have to do everything for him." the number of birth defects in chinese infants soared nearly 40 percent from 2001 to 2006, china's national population and family planning commission said in a 2007 report. the rate of babies born with birth defects rose from 104.9 per 10,000 births in 2001, to 145.5 in 2006, affecting nearly one in 10 families, the report said. infants with birth defects accounted for about 4 to 6 percent of total births every year, or 800,000 to 1.2 million babies, higher than world health organization estimates that about 3 to 5 percent of children worldwide are born with birth defects. "the fact that the rate of birth defects in shanxi province is higher is related to environmental pollution caused by the high level of energy production and burning of coal," said pan xiaochuan, a professor from peking university's occupational and environmental health department. pan has been doing research into the health effects of pollution in shanxi for several years. neural tube defects were the most common form of defect found in babies in shanxi, pan said, though congenital heart disease, additional fingers and toes, and cleft palettes were also common. folic acid china, home to some of the world's most polluted cities, has pledged to cut emissions and clean up its environment, laid waste by decades of breakneck development. but lax local enforcement and an insatiable demand for energy to feed its booming economy undermine environmental policy goals. china's ministry of health last week said it would give folic acid supplements to 12 million rural women to try to reduce the rate of defects, especially the neurological defects that are most common and easily prevented with such supplements. defects often strike in the poorest families, who can barely afford medical fees let alone care for their children once they reach adulthood. the meager 10,000 yuan (1,600 us dollars) a year hu earns transporting goods leaves almost nothing to pay for medical expenses for his two children. the family's hopes are now pinned on their youngest, a six-month old boy named yiwu, whose blood tests show he was spared his siblings' afflictions. his parents want yiwu to be a doctor when he grows up. like many other villages in southwest shanxi, gaojiagou is surrounded by at least a dozen mines that spew out millions of tonnes of coal every year to feed china's power plants and steel mills. many gaojiagou villagers suffer from coughs or respiratory illnesses caused by the dust that clouds the air. their water source has also been polluted by mining, they say. "before every family got drinking water from the well in the courtyard," hao said as water the color of weak tea rushed out of a hose into a metal washbasin. "but now the water in the well is so polluted by the coal mines and washeries around our village, we cannot drink it any more." --- shuktara clinch club cup  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  shuktara jubo sangsad of narayanganj clinched the bashundhara champions club cup with a solitary goal win over 10-man feni soccer club in the final at cox's bazar on tuesday. sohel struck the decider in the third minute in front of a nearly 2,000-strong crowd and it was enough to bring the inaugural champions club cup trophy home. feni soccer club clearly dominated the game, but could not split the backline of shuktra, who apparently adopted a defensive strategy after taking the early lead. taking advantage of some sloppy work by the defenders, khokon advanced into the danger zone to drive a shot, but saw goalkeeper nehal foil his effort. however, sohel did not waste to send the follow-up home with a well-judged header in the third minute. feni soccer club studded with three players, who were picked for the provisional squad of the national team, pressed hard, but failed to break the solid defence of narayanganj outfit. moreover, feni soccer club were reduced to 10 men in the 73rd minute when striker nasir picked up a second yellow card. shuktara jubo sangsad came close to doubling the margin from a counter attack in the 84th minute when arafat dodging past an opponent defender and hammered a shot that beat goalkeeper nehal but it narrowly missed the target. shuktata jubo sangsad also earned a ticket to the professional football league from this season, but it depends on meeting some conditions of the b. league. bd --- learner drivers banned on du campus  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  dhaka university authorities have banned learner drivers, and all vehicles for their instruction, on the campus, after a professor's wife was run over and killed taking a morning walk. anima rani shaha, wife of parimal kumar shaha, a professor of the education and research institute, was hit by du student and learner driver fahim haidar as he lost control of his vehicle and veered onto a footpath on monday. the decision to ban learner drivers on the campus was taken at a meeting of the provost committee, presided over vice chancellor aams arefin, on monday night. the meeting also decided that all shops on the campus should close by 10 p.m . b --- obama says 'absolutely' will reform health in 2009  washington, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us president barack obama said in an interview aired on wednesday that he "absolutely" will get healthcare reform completed in 2009 but declined to say what the final package would eventually look like. "yes, absolutely," obama said on abc's "good morning america," when asked whether an overhaul will be completed this year. "we're going to get it done." but obama declined to say whether he would sign a bill that taxes healthcare benefits, an idea backed by some lawmakers in congress. "i'm going to wait and see what ideas they come up with. i suspect that when they start seeing what the options are, they might end up concluding that the options we're presenting are the best ones," he said. obama said he would prefer to reduce tax deductions for the wealthiest to pay for the overhaul. the united states spends some $2.5 trillion annually on healthcare, about 16 percent of gross domestic product, but trails many developed countries on important measures of health. some 47 million americans are uninsured and have little access to the healthcare sy --- my duty to continue "legal" protests-mousavi's wife  tehran, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the wife of iranian opposition leader mirhossein mousavi called on the establishment to immediately release iranians detained at election protests, his website reported on wednesday. "i regret the arrest of many polititians and people and want their immediate release ... it is my duty to continue legal protests to preserve iranian rights," zahra rahnavard was quoted by the website as saying. she also criticised the presence of armed forces in the str --- govt ready to support air india, but wants reform  new delhi, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the government is ready to help air india, but aviation minister praful patel said on wednesday the struggling state carrier must become "leaner and trimmer" to secure backing it needs to get through a liquidity crunch. the carrier, which has said it wants to cut employee costs by 5 billion rupees ($103 million) annually and has asked senior employees to forego salaries and incentives in july, has sought extra cash through equity and soft loans from the government. "the government's support is there but the government's support also comes with a condition that air india must shape up, must become leaner and trimmer and also must put its best foot forward," patel said in new delhi. patel did not say how much cash would be made available, but said the airline would not be given "an open-ended chequebook". patel said air india will have to implement measures such as manpower restructuring, including of top management, and cost-cutting. air india must submit its restructuring plan within a month, patel added. earlier this month, patel had said an initial public offering of shares in air india could be considered in the near fu --- kids' "power station" sparks radiation alert  berlin, jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a toy nuclear power plant built by two six year-olds sparked a public alert in germany, only for authorities to discover the would-be security threat was the shell of a computer with a radiation warning sign stuck to it. fire services and police cordoned off several streets and told residents to stay indoors in the western town of oelde after the two boys left their mock power station on the street when they went home for dinner monday evening. "it wasn't a prank, they were just playing," a local police spokeswoman said tuesday. "the boys tried to go back later to carry on but the fire brigade wouldn't let them through." the lock-down of the area began when a passer-by saw the metal object with the yellow and black symbol on it, took fright and alerted authorities, the spokeswoman said. police sent out warnings on local radio for residents to remain in their homes while a radiation detector was rushed to the scene to investigate the old computer casing and the warning sign, which the boys had printed out from the internet. after the object had been identified, the boys' parents explained to police the children had gone out to "play nuclear power station" that evening, the spokeswoman  --- more time for appeals against 'political harassment' cases  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com) - the government once again extended its deadline for appeals to withdraw political harassment cases, a home ministry official said on wednesday. the deadline has been stretched to july 12 from may 31, senior assistant secretary mohammad abdul baten miah told bdnews24.com. this is the third extension given by the government since february. soon after being coming to power in january, the awami league-led administration announced it would look into cases filed against politicians and others for 'political motives' only. the government invited applications for cancellation of such cases on feb 22, forming district level vetting committees countrywide and a central scrutiny committee under the home ministry. the central committee has recommended scrapping 108 cases in its two meetings to date62 cases on june 10 and another 46 cases on june 21. of these, 12 cases were brought against hasina during the caretaker government. however, no cases against any bnp leader have yet been recommended for withdrawal. bd --- two expat boxers want to fight at 2010 sa games  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  two expatriates boxers recently showed their interest to be part of the bangladesh boxing team for the upcoming south asian (sa) games to be held in dhaka on january 29-february 9 in 2010. zaid a faisal and adnan bin monsur are currently residing in baguio city, philippines and they have been training under the supervision of philippines national boxing coach glicerio c catolico for the last eight months. engineer zaid is a 57kg category boxer while english teacher monsur 69kg. "we have received a letter from them and are thinking of their possible inclusion," col (retd) m wali ullah, bangladesh olympic association ceo and director, told bdnews24.com. wali ullah said that he talked them by phone on wednesday and asked them to prove they were coming to dhaka and take part in some fights with the bangladeshi boxers, who were in the ongoing camp. the boa ceo, however, said that the final decision would be taken after discussions with the bangladesh boxing federation. bd --- iran minister says cia funding "rioters": report  tehran, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's interior minister on wednesday accused us spy agency the cia of helping to fund "rioters", stepping up accusations of western involvement in street unrest following the country's disputed election. "britain, america and the zionist regime (israel) were behind the recent unrest in tehran," interior minister sadeq mahsouli was quoted as saying by the semi-official fars news agency. "many of the rioters were in contact with america, cia and the mko and are being fed by their financial resources," he said. the mko (mujahideen khalq organisation) is an exiled iranian opposition g --- govt may not complete padma bridge within tenure  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)communications minister syed abul hossain said wednesday completion of the padma bridge at mawa, 50 km south of dhaka, may not be possible within the tenure of the current administration. he said the project would be delayed if tenders for construction work had to wait until after loan agreements have been secured with donors. however, tenders will initially be invited for feasibility studies before the loan agreements are signed. the government is currently negotiating with donors regarding this, said hossain following a farewell meeting with departing world bank country director xian zhu. hossain said zhu had assured him of continued support from the multi-lateral lending agency in various development projects including the padma bridge project and railway development. the world bank assured their assistance in developing new rail lines, launching new services and incorporating computer automation in the railway system, said the minister. bdne --- hc orders etp for industries by next june  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)-the high court has ordered installation of effluent treatment plants (etp) for all industries by june 2010. the court on tuesday also gave all poison-spewing tanneries in hazaribagh until feb 28 2010 to move out of the city center location. the high court bench of justices abm khirul huq and mamtazuddin ahmed gave the orders on separate petitions by the bangladesh environmental lawyers association and human rights and peace for bangladesh. instructions were also issued to the head of the environment directorate, industries secretary and law-enforcing authorities to implement the order. the court fixed the next date for a hearing on the order on july 31 2010. bela's petition followed earlier high court orders from 2001. the environment directorate was asked to ensure installation of treatment plants in 'red' category industries within one year, for protection of the environment. the industry secretary was directed to ensure that no new industry could be set up without effective steps to check environmental pollution. the petitioner sought further high court orders because of the government's failure to implement any of the directives in the past eight years. the court on april 28 this year ordered the government to report within a month opn what steps were being taken to finally implement the environmental protection orders. bela was also asked to let the court know about any measures. supreme court lawyer manzil morshed representing the human rights and peace for bangladesh, however, filed contempt of court petition on april 28 against the industries secretary and the head of the environment directorate for not taking effective steps to check pollution as ordered. advocate rezwana hasan stood for bela, deputy attorney general mostafa zaman islam for the government and manzil morshed hrpb. bd --- new us orders in afghanistan aim to reduce deaths  kabul, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the new commander of us and nato forces in afghanistan will issue orders within days requiring troops to disengage from combat in populated areas when it is safe to do so, in an effort to reduce civilian casualties, a spokesman said. general stanley mcchrystal, who took the reins of u.s. and nato forces in afghanistan a week ago, has repeatedly pledged to take steps to limit civilian deaths, especially from air strikes, which have provoked hostility to the u.s. mission among afghans. a u.s. military report issued last week found that strikes by u.s. b1 bombers, which killed dozens of civilians last month, had violated orders already in place at the time. that report recommended drawing up new guidelines and ordering all u.s. forces operating in afghanistan to undergo new training. since his arrival a week ago, mcchrystal has been visiting his commanders in the field on what the military calls a "listening tour". a spokesman, lieutenant commander joe matison, said one of the issues mcchrystal was discussing was details of the new orders, known as a "tactical directive", which the general hopes to publish "in the next week or so". the new orders will allow u.s. forces to use air strikes and other weapons when they or their allies are under imminent threat, but will require them to disengage from combat if they can do so safely when civilians might be harmed, matison said. "the intent is that if the insurgents fall back into the village then (troops) would try to disengage," he said. "we're really just trying to reduce civilian casualties at that point." however, the emphasis on disengaging to protect civilians is hardly new. mcchrystal's predecessor, general david mckiernan, issued a similar tactical directive last year after an incident involving a large number of civilian deaths. the military has not explained precisely how mcchrystal's directive would differ from mckiernan's, which it says was violated in last month's bombing in western farah province. the b1 bombers dropped three 2000 lb (900 kg) bombs and five 500 lb bombs, destroying two housing compounds and a mosque some distance from where a daylong battle had taken place, because pilots saw people gather in them and believed they were fighters. the report found that no one in the buildings was shooting when they were destroyed and steps had not been taken to ensure there were no civilians present. it concluded that the strikes "did not adhere to all of the specific guidance and commander's intent contained in the controlling directive". u.s. investigators initially estimated about 26 civilians had died along with about 76 fighters, but the military's report noted that an afghan human rights agency had tallied 86 dead civilians and called its conclusions "balanced" and "thorough".  --- israeli ex-finance minister jailed for 5 years  tel aviv, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - former israeli finance minister avraham hirchson, an ally of former premier ehud olmert, was jailed for five years and five months on wednesday for offences including theft and fraud. a court spokeswoman said hirchson was also fined 450,000 shekels ($115,000). on june 8, he was found guilty of stealing over half a million dollars from the trade union he led before becoming a minister in the coalition formed by olmert in 2006. olmert, then leader of the centrist kadima party, was forced to resign last year amid a police investigation into alleged corruption. the former premier denies all wrongdoing. prosecutors said in april they were considering laying charges. earlier on wednesday, israel's highest appeals court sentenced another former cabinet minister to four years in prison for corruption, more than doubling the sentence shlomo benizri originally received for taking bribes. the judges in that case said they extended benizri's sentence to set an example and fight back against a tide of corruption in israeli public life. "there is a phenomenon of increasing corruption in israeli society, to which the institutions of power have not been immune," the appeals judges wrote in a verdict, increasing the former welfare and health minister's sentence from 18 months. "to address this scourge and act as a deterrent ... the time has come for action and to exact a higher price." benizri, a member of the jewish ultra-orthodox shas party, was a minister from 2000 to 2003 in successive left- and right-led coalition governm --- us drone strike kills 45 in pakistan  peshawar, pakistan, june 24 (bdnews24.om/reuters) - a us drone killed at least 45 pakistani taliban militants on tuesday when it struck after a funeral of an insurgent commander killed earlier in the day, pakistani intelligence officials said. u.s. ally pakistan officially objects to the strikes by pilotless u.s. aircraft though the attack came as the pakistani army is preparing an offensive against pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud in south waziristan on the afghan border. the military went on the offensive against taliban fighters allied with mehsud in the swat valley, northwest of islamabad, in may and are in the final phase of that operation. the next target is mehsud. "three missiles were fired by drones as people were dispersing after offering funeral prayers for niaz wali," one intelligence official said referring to a taliban commander who was one of six militants killed in an earlier drone attack. the army had no information on the attack on the funeral in the remote area under mehsud's control, a military official said. mehsud, an al qaeda ally accused of plotting the assassination of former prime minister benazir bhutto in 2007, had been in the area but was not hurt, a taliban official said. the united states has offered a reward of $5 million for information leading to mehsud's location or arrest. the offensive in swat came after taliban gains raised fears for the future of nuclear-armed pakistan, a vital ally for the united states as it strives to defeat al qaeda and stabilize afghanistan. the government has ordered an offensive against mehsud in his south waziristan stronghold. the taliban have responded with a string of bomb attacks in towns and cities and assassinations of opponents. opponent killed earlier on tuesday, a gunman working as a guard killed a rival of mehsud who had spoken out strongly against the taliban chief and may have been about to mount a challenge against him. the murdered militant commander, qari zainuddin, was killed in the northwestern town of dera ismail khan, police said. the gunman escaped. president asif ali said pakistan had to fight to the end and mehsud was just one "player." "he's just one actor in the scene and we want to get all the actors," zardari told britain's itv before the drone attack. in recent days, the military has launched air strikes on mehsud's bases while soldiers have been securing the main road into the mountainous region populated by ethnic pashtun tribes. the taliban official said the death toll in the attack on the funeral gathering was higher than 45. "most of the bodies have been burned," he said by telephone from the region. "we are not allowing anyone to go to the site." the united states has carried out some 42 drone strikes since the beginning of last year, most since september, killing more than 345 people, including many foreign militants, according to security agents, officials and residents. the fighting has sparked an exodus of nearly 2 million people and aid workers fear a flow of villagers out of south waziristan when fighting intensifies there. already 45,000 have fled from south waziristan. the united nations is appealing for $543 million in aid to avert a long-term humanitarian crisis but has received only 35 percent of that. pakistan is being kept afloat by a $7.6 billion international monetary fund loan, underscoring the need for outside help for the displaced --- canadian scientists breeding cows that burp less  toronto, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - canadian scientists are breeding a special type of cow designed to burp less, a breakthrough that could reduce a big source of greenhouse gases responsible for global warming. cows are responsible for nearly three-quarters of total methane emissions, according to environment canada. most of the gas comes from bovine burps, which are 20 times more potent than carbon dioxide as a greenhouse gas. stephen moore, a professor at the university of alberta in edmonton, is examining the genes responsible for methane produced from a cow's four stomachs in order to breed more efficient, environmentally friendly cows. the professor of agricultural, food and nutritional science completed primary tests using traditional techniques to breed efficient animals that produce 25 percent less methane than less efficient animals. but more work needs to be done before the long-term impact is known. moore's study was published earlier this year in the journal of animal science. "we are working on producing diagnostic markers for efficient animals. we are looking at the next generation of technologies that will enable us to determine the genetics of an animal through a blood test or testing some hairs that you might pluck from the animal," said moore. to shrink cattle's ecological footprint ranchers could also decrease the time cows are left standing in the field by getting animals to market sooner. that means breeding cattle that grow faster. also, through breeding, cattle could become more efficient in converting feed into muscle and producing less methane and waste, said moore. another method already being used to reduce methane emissions is feeding livestock a diet higher in energy and rich in edible oils, which ferment less than grass or low-quality feed. farmers in alberta that feed their livestock edible oils and shorten the time to market can accrue carbon credits that could amount to between one c$1 and c$10 per head. new hampshire-based stonyfield farm, an organic yogurt producer in which groupe danone holds a majority stake, reduced emissions from their cows on an average of 12 percent by adding alfalfa, flax or hemp to livestock feed on a small number of its farms. "if every u.s. dairy farmer reduced emissions by 12 percent it would be equal to about half a million cars being taken off the road," said nancy hirshberg, vice president of stonyfield's natural resources department. --- somali legislators flee abroad, parliament paralyzed  nairobi, wed jun 24,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - scores of somali legislators have fled violence at home to the safety of other countries in africa, europe and the united states, leaving the nation's parliament without a quorum to meet. violence from an islamist-led insurgency has worsened this month, with a minister, the mogadishu police chief, and a legislator all killed. the government, which controls little but a few parts of the capital, has declared a state of emergency. with reports of foreign jihadists streaming into somalia, western security services are frightened osama bin laden's al qaeda network may get a grip on the failed horn of africa state that has been without central government for 18 years. needing two-thirds of legislators present to meet, somalia's 550-seat parliament has not convened since april 25. officials said on wednesday that 288 members of parliament (mps) were abroad, with only about 50 on official visits. the rest were in neighbors kenya and djibouti, european nations such as sweden, britain, the netherlands and norway, and the united states, the officials said. "i cannot be a member of a government that cannot protect me," abdalla haji ali, an mp who left for kenya last week, told reuters. "in somalia, nobody is safe." parliament speaker sheikh aden mohamed madobe has urged the mps to return, and somalia's finance ministry has blocked the salaries of 144 legislators abroad, officials said. in nairobi on wednesday, plenty of somali mps could be seen sipping tea and talking politics in various hotels and cafes. "as legislators, we have responsibility and every one of us should perform his duty in mogadishu," one legislator who has stayed in mogadishu, sheikh ahmed moalim, told reuters. "before you decide to flee, you have to resign officially if you realize that you cannot work in this environment." "government fiddles, somalia burns" islamist rebel leader sheikh hassan dahir aweys held a news conference in mogadishu to denounce the government's call at the weekend for foreign forces to come to its aid. the african union has a 4,300-strong force guarding government and other installations in mogadishu, but has been unable to stem violence and has been targeted by the rebels. kenya has said it supports international efforts to get more troops into somalia, but aweys thanked nairobi for declining to send its soldiers across the border. "if they deal with us well, we will deal with them well as a good neighbor," he said. nairobi expatriate circles have been awash with rumors of planned attacks by somali militants. "the fighting will stop when the foreign enemy forces leave the country and somalis come together for talks," aweys added. "nothing remains of the puppet somali government." the united nations and western powers back president sheikh sharif ahmed's government, but are increasingly frustrated over how to help him stabilize somalia. ahmed, himself a moderate islamists, was elected by parliament at a un-sponsored process in djibouti in january. "the situation has gone from bad to worse to worst, presenting the entire horn of africa with a security crisis of the first order," us analyst peter pham said in a paper. "if the tfg (government) is 'fiddling' while somalia burns, it is doing so with a full orchestral accompaniment provided by an international community that apparently lacks either the will or the imagination (or both) to do anything else." gus selassie, an analyst for ihs global insight think-tank, was equally pessimistic. "there appears to be an extreme reluctance on the part of the international community, including neighboring countries and friendly governments such as ethiopia, to heed the tfg's desperate calls," he wrote in another analysis. "both the security and humanitarian situation will have to worsen considerably before anyone will aid the  --- citi to boost employees' base pay by up to 50 percent: report  washington, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - citigroup inc intends to raise employees' base salaries by as much as 50 percent this year to offset smaller annual bonuses, the new york times said, citing people with direct knowledge of the plan. with an eye on retaining employees and neutralizing a drop in the value of their stock holdings, citi also plans to award millions of new stock options to employees, according to the paper. citigroup officials declined to discuss the issue on the record with the new york times, but told the paper the changes would bring the bank's compensation plan in line with the general wall street view that bonuses are a form of deferred salary and not one-time payouts. in a statement emailed to reuters, citigroup said it is continuing to examine ways to ensure its employee compensation practices are competitive. "retaining and attracting the best talent is very important to the success of citi and all its stakeholders," citigroup said. "any salary adjustments are not intended to increase total annual compensation, rather to adjust the balance between fixed and variable compensation," citigroup said in the statement. the new york times added that the obama administration's new "pay czar" kenneth feinberg held introductory meetings this week with citigroup executives and their counterparts at several other companies that have received federal bailout funds. feinberg has the authority to set compensation for only the top 100 employees at troubled companies, according to the p --- tighter recruitment of secondary school teachers sought  mustak ahmed bdnews24.com education correspondent dhaka, june 22 (bdnews24.com)a parliamentary subcommittee on secondary education is seeking to close loopholes in employment procedures in secondary and higher education and has prepared a report with recommendations. the three-member committee, in its report, proposed an entirely separate directorate for secondary education and made specific recommendations regarding the recruitment of teachers at secondary and higher level. the report says, "it is nearly impossible for the directorate of secondary and higher education to perform its duty properly due to the huge population and increasing number of educational institutions. that is why it is necessary to restructure the directorate and establish a separate administrative body only for secondary education level." the committee also urges that recruitment of teachers be performed through a central administration and that the prevailing rule of recruiting through the managing committee and governing body of non-government educational institutions be ended. increasingly, managing committees and governing bodies across the country are facing numerous accusations of irregularities and of exhibiting partiality to teaching candidates. the committee took note of allegations that job candidates offer bribes to be assigned employment in the right quarters in the capital and also arrange to work in dhaka through unethical means and party-favouritism. consequently, committee members note, only influential people are coming to work in dhaka and the capital has become 'impossible' for finding employment for job candidates who have no influence. the committee found it was important to transfer government high school and college teachers after they served no more than three years within the same school. it further said changing schools within dhaka would not be considered a "change of workstation". the report mentioned that there is no post for mentors of the hindu and buddhist religions in government secondary schools. the committee feels it is necessary to create those positions among teachers. it also recommended that non-governmental organisations, especially madrasas and others that do not observe national days, be deleted from the monthly pay order list and, if necessary, lose their academic permits. the committee suggested creating mpo listings based upon recommendations of local parliamentarians. the report also suggested effective steps to reduce the lack of discipline and apparent corruption in different units of education-related administrations of the government. it said that transparency and speed cannot be achieved without bringing changes to the administration. it proposed transferring personnel among the inter-education board. an inter-educational board transfer rule, which would be implemented in three years, should be put in place for all educational board officials, the report recommended. the committee said it was important to establish at least one government secondary school in each upazila, or subdistrict, in a bid to ensure quality education. it also proposed the work of the national curriculum and textbook board should be assigned to two separate bodies. the subcommittee, headed by mp shah alam along with kazi faruk and sheikh abdul ohab, was formed on april 30, 2009. rashed khan menon, chairman of the parliamentary standing committee on education, told bdnews24.com the report would be submitted during the next standing committee meeting. bd --- twitter users buy more music: report  denver, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a new npd group study finds that active twitter users buy 77 percent more digital music downloads on average than non-users. additionally, 12 percent of those who have bought music in the last three months also report having used twitter, versus 8 percent of overall web users. "based on their music-purchasing history, active twitter users are simply worth more to record labels and music retailers than those who are not using twitter," says npd entertainment analyst russ crupnick. a third of all twitter user reported buying a cd in the prior three months, and 34 percent reported buying music digitally, compared to 23 percent and 16 percent for overall web users. another one-third of twitter users listened to music on a social networking site, 41 percent via online radio and 39 percent watched music videos online. overall, they are twice as likely than average web users to visit myspace music and pandora. "twitter has the potential to help foster the discovery of new music, and improve targeted marketing of music to groups of highly-involved and technologically savvy consumers, but it has to be done right," crupnick said. "there must be a careful balance struck between entertainment and direct conversation on one hand, and marketing on the other. used properly twitter has the power to entertain -- and to motivate music fans to purchase more new albums, downloads, merchandise, and concert tick --- olympic day run observed  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  the bangladesh olympic association on tuesday observed the olympic day run amid huge enthusiasm. some 5,000 participants including organisers, athletics, physically challenged people took part in the run that began at the ramna tennis complex and ended at the bangabandhu national stadium. five other divisional headquarters also observed the day in khulna, chittagong, rajshahi, sylhet and barisal. finance minister abul maal abdul muhith and sports minister ahad ali sarker were present in the opening programme as the main subject of the olympic day was 'move learn discover'. bangladesh olympic association secretary general kutubuddin ahmed, vice- president mizanur rahman manu, sponsor coca cola far east limiter country manager debashish day, exim bank director and bangladesh handball federation president nurul alam bulbul were also present. after the run, a blood donation programme was also held at the national sports council. the boa had earlier held a seminar and drawing competition to mark olympic day. bd --- ponting enthuses over rebuilt side  hove, england, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - australia captain ricky ponting has used his team's first-round exit from the twenty20 world cup for some intensive practice with his rebuilt side before the ashes series starting next month. ponting has lost shane warne, glenn mcgrath, matthew hayden, and adam gilchrist from the team who defeated england 5-0 in the last ashes contest after losing 2-1 in the unforgettable 2005 series. the team have endured mixed fortunes subsequently but showed their calibre by beating south africa away this year after losing the previous series in australia. "to take that group of players over there and win as well as we did was very satisfying and i tried to take as much as i could out of that result," ponting told reporters at a media day at the sussex county cricket ground in hove. "it was a good feeling for me and that's why i've got a really good feeling around this group of players. "when you're putting new openers in and new fast bowling combinations in your side i guess it is almost a total rebuilding. everything is heading in the right direction." ponting, who inherited one of the great australian sides from steve waugh, now has an enviable mix of youth and experience at his disposal for the ashes defence starting in cardiff on july 8. opening batsman philip hughes and fast bowler mitchell johnson are two of the most exciting players in world cricket and the competition among the pace bowlers will be fierce. "the last series in south africa was a good one with some young guys who learned a lot about international cricket and a fair bit about themselves," said ponting. "i've said for a while i've been very happy and very excited about where our test cricket is heading. it's an opportunity for players on this tour to really forge an identity for themselves. --- hc gives hazaribagh tanneries feb 2010 deadline  dhaka june 23 (bdnews24.com)the high court tuesday ordered all tanneries located in hazaribagh to vacate the area by feb 28 2010, and ensure all such factories are fitted with effluent treatment plants by june the same year. the ruling follows a writ petition by the bangladesh environmental lawyers' association and human rights and peace for bangladesh, an ngo. it follows an earlier hc order from 2001 that directed all hazaribagh tanneries to relocate out of the city centre to savar. justices abm khairul huq and momtaz uddin ahmed gave tuesday's ruling. bdnews2 --- asia developers upbeat as home sales rebound  singapore, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - asian property firms are beginning to see light at the end of the tunnel and several are positioning for an upturn even as the world economy struggles to recover from its worst recession in decades. the mood among us and european executives at this week's reuters global real estate summit is glum, but asian counterparts are more upbeat with some revealing plans for new projects in anticipation of an upturn later this year. for instance, chinese commercial property developer soho said it has built up a war chest of $1.9 billion to replenish its land bank and intends to start new projects in shanghai and beijing in coming months. indiabulls, india's third-largest listed property developer, aims to launch six to seven residential projects in the financial year ending in march 2010 on the back of an expected recovery in demand. "the general mood has been cautious, but there is also optimism. asian companies in general are in much better shape compared to their peers in other regions," said ayala land chief financial officer and asian public real estate association president jaime ysmael. spurring the optimism in asia is a recovery in residential markets, with price cuts drawing buyers in china, hong kong and singapore, where saving rates are high and banks are prepared to lend. the volume of transactions in these places are close to levels seen during the bull market of 2007 and residential property values have begun to edge upwards as developers such as singapore's city developments raise prices. asian property values did not rise as much as in the us and parts of europe this decade. in dollar terms, property in countries such as the philippines are cheaper than before the onset of the asian crisis in late 1997. interest rate cuts and government stimulus plans are also helping regional property markets recover. singapore residential prices were supported by mortgage rates that were below rental yields, a bank of america merrill lynch report said this week. "at the current mortgage rate of around 2.75 percent, our net cost of carry model implies that prices can rise by 30 percent before home buyers enter negative carry," it said. the bank predicts singapore home prices will rise 20 percent next year. singapore's housing market has been hit hard by the downturn, with home prices plunging nearly 14 percent in the first quarter of this year, the steepest drop in over 30 years, according to government data. separately, nomura said unemployment was stabilising in hong kong and forecasts home prices and rents in the chinese territory will rise by 22 percent and 11 percent, respectively, this year. a poll of 10 analysts conducted in conjunction with the reuters global real estate summit showed china home prices are expected to gain an average of 10 percent between now and the end of 2010. the outlook for asia's office market remained negative but most developers said rents have stabilised after falling sharply in the fourth quarter of 2008 and earlier this year. some investors said any pick-up may not be sustainable. "there is a risk that this is a bear market rally and the situation could reverse when such liquidity leave the cities or country, or there is new shock to the economies," said lasalle investment management's asia-pacific head of research and strategy kenneth t --- rainy season sees little rain  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)long awaited rain was seen amid the scorching heat of the capital on wednesday, but it turned out to be barely a drizzle. the met office said the heat wave abated temporarily with the light shower and cloud cover. there was some rain in the city's dhanmondi, mirpur, shahbagh and gulistan areas among others. in the rest of the country, dinajpur, syedpur, mymensingh, rangpur, mymensingh, chandpur, feni, srimangal and sylhet saw some showers. but the met office said the heat of past weeks is abnormal as there has been so little rainfall for the time of year. "heat waves over khulna, rajshahi, ishwardi, tangail and jessore, look likely to persist for the next three or four days," meteorologist rasheduzzaman told bdnews24.com on tuesday. the weather office said the monsoon winds remained very weak over the bay of bengal compared to normal activity at this time of year. "analysing rainfall data of the last 30 years, we can see that there will be less rainfall this june but it may still remain within normal levels," said buet professor dr nazrul islam, also an official of the saarc weather research centre. "there was little rainfall in april too, but more is expected in august and october," he said. monsoon winds picked up in advance this year with cyclone aila in may. but they died down again in its wake, say meteorologists. bdnews24. --- sa crush nat'l hockey team  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  the bangladesh national hockey team continued their miserable run in the international arena when they suffered an 8-0 defeat to south africa in first match of the four-nation invitational hockey tournament in moscow on wednesday. bangladesh, who lost to india by 11-0 in their last match of the asia cup, went 4-0 first-half down against south africa, the 15th ranked side in the world. the 34th-ranked bangladesh, however, missed a penalty stroke as well as four penalty corners, according to a message from team manager anvir adel. bangladesh face hosts russian on thursday. bd --- "jihadists" helping displaced pakistanis: aid group  islamabad, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - inadequate assistance was allowing militant groups to operate in camps and communities housing hundreds of thousands of pakistanis displaced by an offensive against the taliban, an aid group said on wednesday. about 2 million people have fled the military's push against the taliban in pakistan's northwest, most since an offensive began in the swat valley in may. those numbers are expected to swell further as the offensive is widened. un officials said this week that only about 30 percent of a $543 million aid appeal it launched in may in a bid to avert a long-term humanitarian crisis had been met. aid group refugees international said the slow pace of help had created a vacuum which militants and other "political actors" were filling. "jihadist groups are present, leading an international agency to suspend its visits in some camps on fridays and saturdays as 'these are the days the jihadists distribute their assistance'," the washington-based group said in a report on wednesday. refugees international did not identify the agency concerned. it said it had witnessed a similar phenomenon in iraq. at least 45,000 people have already fled south waziristan as the military gears up for its next phase of the offensive against pakistani taliban leader baitullah mehsud and his thousands of followers in their stronghold near the afghan border. the offensives were launched after taliban gains this year raised fears about the future of nuclear-armed pakistan, a key us ally in its fight against al qaeda and washington's attempt to stabilise afghanistan. the united nations and other agencies estimate more than 80 percent of the displaced are staying with families and friends in "host" communities rather than in camps, putting enormous strain on already over-stretched facilities. according to the refugees international report, "the implications of this humanitarian crisis and growing instability have not been adequately recognised" and more funding is urgently needed to help the united nations and other agencies. it said one aid organisation, which it did not identify, had reported "pockets of starvation". u.n. list according to the report, "politically motivated actors" were helping the displaced in order to gain their support. that aid ranged from portable fans to mobile telephone cards, it said. some candidates running in local elections had even established their own camps, the report said. last month, aid officials said members of a pakistani islamist charity on a un watch list were helping the displaced. officials identified the previously unheard of falah-i-insaniat as an offshoot of the jamaat-ud-dawa (jud) charity. the united nations placed the jud on a terrorist list in december, saying it was an alias for the banned laskhar-e-taiba militant group. india blames lashkar-e-taiba for the mumbai attack last year that killed 166 people. analysts have said it was unlikely the pakistani government would stop groups like the falah-i-insaniat foundation from providing help in the camps -- unless they engage in militancy -- because there were no laws banning such activity. the united states has been the biggest contributor to the un fund with $169 million, refugees international said. immediate assistance is needed in the provision of food, shelter and drinking water, as well as "trauma-related services", especially for children, it  --- india's ongc finds oil, gas in 3 blocks: paper  mumbai, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india's oil and natural gas corp has struck oil and gas in three new blocks, the economic times reported on tuesday, citing the state-run explorer's chairman r.s. sharma. the report sent its shares up more than 3 percent in a subdued mumbai market. the gas find in the krishna-godavari basin off india's east coast could have an estimated reserve of 10 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of gas, the newspaper said, quoting an unnamed senior company official. ongc said the discoveries opened up new areas for exploration but the estimated reserve figure in the report was incorrect. "the initial flow rates do not indicate reserves anywhere near 10 tcf as reported in the news item," the company said in a statement. the company also found oil in charada-3 offshore block in cambay basin, off the west coast, and oil and gas in matar in vadodara district of gujarat state, the newspaper said. ongc said all three finds were part of 28 discoveries made in the past fiscal year that in ended march. "further study and delineation drilling would be required to estimate the size of these discoveries," it said. ongc has notified the directorate general of hydrocarbons, which has to approve the find. it would take up to four years for production to start, the paper said. "we are going through the case and we will take a call soon," the paper quoted v.k. sibal, the chief of the regulator, as saying. at 2:57 p.m. (0927 gmt), shares in ongc were trading 3.24 percent higher at 1,025.85 rupees in a flat mumbai market --- 55,021 applicants retain nano booking:tata motors  mumbai, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - tata motors, india's largest vehicle maker, said on tuesday that 55,021 applicants for its nano who missed out on an allotment of the first 100,000 units of the small car had retained their bookings. the company said it expects to complete delivery of the first 100,000 nanos, the world's cheapest car, by the last quarter of 2010. the company raised $500 million in april from consumer bookings for the nano --- dipu moni asks mps to check return of unconstitutional govt  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)foreign minister dipu moni has urged mps not to create a situation that would lead to return of an unconstitutional government in future. she made the appeal while delivering her speech on the proposed national budget for fy 2009-10 in parliament. another awami league mp dhirendra chandra devnath told parliament that all pervasive corruption had crossed all previous record. "during the last two years, extra-constitutional events took place. the present government also inherited some of the unconstitutional actions. "some say these should be validated through the doctrine of necessity. it reminds us of the infamous doctrine of necessity invoked by military ruler ayub khan (of pakistan). "we should not forget that bangladesh emerged as an independent nation opposing the infamous doctrine of necessity," dipu moni said. "i urge the parliament (to make sure that no) unconstitutional events take place in future". the foreign minister also opposed the 'black money' whitening offer for three years as proposed by the finance minister. she proposed that the black money holders should be punished to some extent and given last chance to legalise illegally unearned undisclosed money. dhirendra devnath said the corruption had not come down, rather it spread into 'lanes and alleys'. "corruption has increased. it had crossed all previous records. "we have to curb corruption," devnath said. waresat hossain belal, jafor iqbal siddiqui, abdul hai, mollah jalal uddin, mamtaz begum and faridunnahar laily also spoke on the proposed national budget. bd --- rioting congo prisoners rape 20 women  kinshasa, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - rioting inmates raped around 20 female prisoners during a failed prison break in democratic republic of congo's violence-ravaged east, the country's un peacekeeping mission said. two people were killed and 12 others were injured when prisoners detonated two grenades inside the central prison in goma, capital of the eastern border province of north kivu, during an overnight escape attempt that began late sunday. "the group of mutinying soldiers ... raped around 20 female inmates," said the statement released late monday by the un mission, known as monuc. congolese police and military surrounded the prison, which holds a number of rebel and militia fighters, soon after the riots began, and no prisoners escaped. with small budgets and poor facilities, congolese prisons are generally overcrowded. malnutrition and easily preventable illnesses are common. in many cases, soldiers, women, and children are mixed in with the general inmate population. the united nations blames a growing wave of attempted jail breaks and mutinies on a lack of food and access to healthcare in congo's prison system. new york-based rights campaigner human rights watch (hrw) accused congolese authorities of repeatedly ignoring calls to improve the country's crumbling prison infrastructure and failing to protect vulnerable inmates. "the rape of female prisoners in a government institution is deeply distressing. this is a horrific example of what has been happening across the prison system throughout congo," said anneke van woudenberg, hrw's senior congo researcher --- top iran body rejects poll annulment demand - tv  tehran, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's top legislative body has again ruled out any annulment of the june 12 presidential election, as demanded by two defeated candidates, state television said on tuesday. "iran's guardian council rejects annulment of the june 12 presidential election, saying that there have been no major polling irregularities," the english-language press tv said. the report came a day after one of the beaten candidates, pro-reform cleric mehdi karoubi, repeated his call for the council to annul the election, which official results showed was won by hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad. "instead of wasting time on recounting some ballot boxes ... cancel the vote," karoubi said in a letter to the council. moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi, ahmadinejad's main challenger in the election, has also called for the vote to be annulled, citing irregularities. the authorities reject opposition charges of vote fraud. press tv quoted a guardian council spokesman as saying most of the complaints received by the body, which must approve election results, were about alleged irregularities before the election and not during and after the vote. "fortunately we have witnessed no major irregularites during the country's recent presidential election and therefore there is no reason to annul the election," said council spokesman abbasali kadkhodai. the council had made clear before that it would not annul the election, saying last week it was only ready to recount a random 10 percent of the votes cast. official results of the election, released on june 13, sparked the most widespread street protests in iran since the country's 1979 islamic revolution. the defeated candidates have submitted a total of 646 complaints about the election. earlier this week, kadkhodai said one common complaint was that the number of votes surpassed eligible voters in some constituencies. but he said it may have been due to the fact iranians could vote wherever they wanted and that in any case it would not have had any major impact on the election result. the council is a 12-man body, six senior clerics appointed by the supreme leader and six islamic jurists, which must ensure all laws agree with islamic sharia law and iran's constitution. it also vets aspiring candidates for presidential elections. --- ppr changes not a sop to party faithful: muhith  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)finance minister ama muhith said tuesday that changes to the public procurement regulations were to ensure "dynamism, transparency and accountability" in development programmes, and not to benefit those loyal to the party. the new draft regulations had been finalised and reviewed by the cabinet, muhith told reporters after a meeting with outgoing world bank country director xian zhu at the economic relations division. he said the draft was likely to get final approval at the next cabinet meeting. muhith said changes to the regulations aimed to secure qualified contractors and create opportunity for new entrepreneurs. "in the past, contractors who provided low quotes often disappeared with the money without completing half the work," he said. muhith said fifty percent of rural development work was marked by "irregularities". "as a result, the government has been incurring huge losses." he said the ppr was being revised to stop the drain on public money. he also stressed that the world bank or other donor agencies had not pressured the government in any way over regulations, but they did monitor procedures with regard to funding development projects. bdnews24.co --- obama to meet pope on july 10: vatican source  vatican city, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us president barack obama will meet pope benedict for the first time on july 10 during a visit to italy to attend a g8 heads of state meeting, a vatican source said wednesday. obama has angered many american catholics with his support for abortion rights for women and his decision to lift restrictions on stem cell research. the vatican source said obama would hold a brief audience with the pope in the afternoon, after the conclusion of the july 8-10 summit of the group of eight industrialized nations. a vatican spokesman declined to confirm or deny the timing of the meeting. the vatican and italian church leaders condemned obama's decision in march to lift restrictions on federal funding for human embryonic stem cell research put in place by his predecessor george w. bush. his subsequent invitation to speak at notre dame, a premier us catholic university, sparked criticism last month. while some heckled obama during his speech, his appeal for a "fair-minded" discussion on abortion was received with several standing ovations. the g8 summit is due to discuss a response to the ongoing international economic crisis and global warming. it will take place in the central italian city of l'aquila, which bore the brunt of an earthquake in april that killed nearly 300 pe --- iran cracks down as reformists call for mourning  tehran, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - a security crackdown appears to have quelled street rallies against iran's disputed poll, but the leadership faced a new challenge on wednesday from calls by reformist clerics for national mourning for dead protesters. editors' note: reuters and other foreign media are subject to iranian restrictions on their ability to report, film or take pictures in tehran. while defiant cries of "allahu akbar" (god is greatest) were again heard from tehran rooftops as darkness descended overnight, iran's hardline islamist leadership, for now at least, seemed to have gained the upper hand. hundreds of riot police and basij militiamen on tehran's main squares appeared to have largely put an end to mass protests against the june 12 election, which reformists say was rigged in favor of hardline president mahmoud ahmadinejad. at least 10 protesters were killed in the worst violence on saturday, and about seven more early last week. many of the deaths have been filmed by fellow demonstrators, posted on the internet and viewed by thousands around the world. u.s. president barack obama toughened his stance on tuesday and said he was "appalled and outraged" by iran's crackdown. iran has accused the protesters of being backed by the west, the united states and britain in particular, and have paraded arrested young demonstrators on state television confessing to being incited by foreign news broadcasts. the foreign ministry accused u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon of interfering in iran's affairs "under the influence of some powers," an apparent reference to britain and the united states. mourning tehran's hardline leadership is locked in a dispute with western powers over its nuclear program, which it says is intended for generating electricity but which the west suspects could yield nuclear weapons that could destabilize the region. obama said the united states would not interfere in the protests, describing accusations it was instigating them as "patently false and absurd." "this tired strategy of using old tensions to scapegoat other countries won't work any more in iran," he said. grand ayatollah hossein ali montazeri, a dissident but yet one of the most senior clerics in iran, called for three days of national mourning from wednesday for those killed. "resisting the people's demand is religiously prohibited," montazeri said in a statement on his website. montazeri was once named successor to ayatollah rohullah khomeini, but fell out with the founder of the islamic republic shortly before his death in 1989. montazeri has been under house arrest in the holy city of qom for around a decade. reformist cleric mehdi karoubi who came third in the election also signaled opposition would continue, calling on iranians to hold ceremonies on thursday to mourn the dead. but in an apparent concession, supreme leader ali khamenei, who holds all the key levers of power in iran, accepted a request from iran's top legislative body to allow five more days for candidates to lodge complaints over the election. the 12-man guardian council though has already rejected demands for a vote re-run from moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi, who says he is the rightful victor. --- dipu moni off to new york  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)foreign minister dipu moni has left for new york to attend a un conference on economic crisis, a foreign ministry official said . "she has just got on board the plane," a foreign ministry official accompanying the minister told bdnews24.com tuesday night. dipu moni flew on an emirates flight which took off zia international airport at around 10:30pm. foreign ministry sources said the foreign minister would attend the "united nations conference on the world financial and economic crisis and its implications on development" scheduled to take place on june 24-26. the finance and the foreign ministers of the un member countries are likely to attend the two-day high-level conference. dipu moni is scheduled to return home on june 30. --- obama urges passage of 'historic' climate change bill  washington, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - democrats in the us house of representatives, urged on by president barack obama, announced progress on tuesday toward quick passage of legislation to fight global warming by reducing industrial emissions of carbon dioxide. at a midday white house press conference, obama said the "historic" climate change bill moving through the house would "transform the way we produce and use energy in america." with incentives to encourage utilities, manufacturers and other companies to switch from higher-polluting oil and coal to cleaner energy alternatives, obama said the legislation would spark a "transformation that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and confront the carbon pollution that threatens our planet." hours after obama's remarks, house democrats announced they had reached a deal on difficult agriculture issues in the legislation, clearing the way for a vote and probable passage in the chamber this week. representative henry waxman, a main proponent of the climate change bill in the house, told reporters that farmers won several of the demands they had been holding out for in exchange for supporting the climate bill. house majority leader steny hoyer was cautiously optimistic, telling reporters, it is "quite possible and maybe even probable" the bill will be debated on friday and pass. with house passage, the climate change debate would shift to the senate, which has not yet crafted its own bill and where passage is more complicated than in the house because republicans could use delaying tactics. as obama was leading the charge for climate change legislation cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 17 percent by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050 (from 2005 levels), his administration acted on another clean energy front. help for automakers nearly $8 billion in energy department loans were announced to help automakers retool plants so they can build more fuel efficient vehicles, including electric cars and autos with improved gasoline engines. in pushing companies to reduce their carbon emissions, the climate change bill would encourage the use of alternative energy such as solar and wind, while promoting technologies to capture and store emissions from coal-burning plants. supporting that effort, interior secretary ken salazar announced that the government had awarded its first leases for offshore wind development off the atlantic ocean coasts of new jersey and delaware. while large u.s. companies such as duke energy, dow and alcoa, have embraced the broad goals of the house climate bill, other industries criticized it. the american petroleum institute, representing major u.s. oil companies, called the house legislation "fundamentally flawed" and said it would "cost americans billions of dollars in higher costs, kill jobs and will not deliver the environmental benefits promised." this week, the nonpartisan congressional budget office estimated the house democrats' climate bill could cost households an average $175 a year in added costs, while the poor would enjoy a $40 annual benefit from rebates and other breaks. republicans had warned of $3,100 in price increases yearly and severe job losses. obama's environmental protection agency estimated an average household cost per year of $80-$111, or 22 cents to 30 cents a day. meanwhile, republican representative jim sensenbrenner, an outspoken critic of the democratic climate change bill, asked the justice department to investigate whether general motors and chrysler can legally lobby in favor of global warming legislation because of the government bailouts of those firms. gm is a member of the united states climate action partnership, which has advocated climate legislation along the lines of the house bill. farm-state lawmakers already have succeeded in adding help for rural electricity companies and talks reportedly were continuing on farmer land-use issues. michael steel, a spokesman for house republican leader john boehner, said that even with the new concessions to rural areas, "the core of this legislation remains the same: a job-killing tax increase that will hit every single american, especially middle class families in the heartland of america." --- khamenei vows no retreat on iran election result  tehran, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iran's supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei vowed on wednesday he would not budge in response to protests over a disputed election that has sparked the biggest street demonstrations since the 1979 islamic revolution. "i had insisted and will insist on implementing the law on the election issue ... neither the establishment nor the nation will yield to pressure at any cost," khamenei said. now that riot police and religious militia have regained control of the streets, iran's hardline leadership seems to be taking a harsher line with its foreign and domestic critics. foreign minister manouchehr mottaki said tehran was weighing whether to downgrade ties with britain after tit-for-tat expulsions of diplomats this week. he also announced he had "no plans" to attend a g8 meeting in italy this week on afghanistan. his remarks, a day after us president barack obama said he was "appalled and outraged" by the clampdown in iran, provided more evidence of rising tension with the west. western diplomats had seen the june 25-27 event as a rare chance for group of eight nations to discuss with regional powers such as iran shared goals for afghanistan and pakistan. the unexpected upheaval in iran has thrown a spanner into obama's plans to engage the islamic republic in a substantive dialogue over its nuclear programme, which tehran says is peaceful but which the west suspects is for bomb-making. iran has accused the united states and britain of fomenting post-election unrest and has paraded detained protesters on state television confessing that western media had incited them. security forces have clamped a tight grip on tehran to prevent more rallies against poll, which reformists say was rigged to return president mahmoud ahmadinejad to power and keep out moderate former prime minister mirhossein mousavi. mousavi's wife, zahra rahnavard, demanded the immediate release of people detained since the election and criticised the presence of armed forces in the streets, his website reported. "it is my duty to continue legal protests to preserve iranian rights," rahnavard, who actively campaigned with her husband before the election, was quoted as saying. britons accused of joining riots intelligence minister gholamhossein mohseni-ejei said some british passport-holders had been involved in "riots", the semi-official fars news agency reported. he said one of those arrested was "disguised as a journalist and he was collecting information needed by the enemies". at least 10 protesters were killed in the worst violence on saturday, and about seven more early last week. many of the deaths have been filmed by fellow demonstrators, posted on the internet and viewed by thousands around the world. grand ayatollah hossein ali montazeri, a dissident who is one of iran's most senior clerics, has called for three days of national mourning from wednesday for those killed. montazeri was once named successor to ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, but fell out with the father of the revolution before he died in 1989. he has spent years under house arrest in qom. reformist cleric mehdi karoubi, who came last in the election, has also urged iranians to mourn the dead on thursday. the foreign ministry accused u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon of interfering in iran's affairs "under the influence of some powers", an apparent dig at britain and the united states. obama described accusations that his country was instigating the protests in iran as "patently false and absurd". security forces have arrested 25 employees of kalameh-y e sabz, a newspaper whose managing director is mousavi, the sarmayeh daily reported. it quoted alireza beheshti, an editorial board member, as saying the arrests on monday had been on the orders of hardline tehran prosecutor saeed mortazavi. khamenei, iran's ultimate authority, has accepted a request from the guardian council, which must ratify the election, to allow five more days for candidates to lodge complaints. the 12-man council has already rejected demands for a vote re-run from mousavi, who says he is the rightful victor. conservative candidate mohsen rezaie, who came third in the poll, said he had withdrawn his complaints, citing iran's sensitive political and security conditions, irna reported. ahmadinejad will be sworn in before parliament some time between july 26 and aug. 19, the iran news newspaper  --- dhaka names envoys to india, myanmar, us  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)bangladesh has named new envoys to neighbours india and myanmar, and the us, three of the top diplomatic posts for dhaka. retired foreign service officer ahmed tariq karim will become dhaka's high commissioner in new delhi, while a military officer will go to yangon, md nasir uddin, a director at external publicity wing, told bdnews24.com tuesday. ambassador karim will replace liaquat ali choudhury who had gone on lpr last month. major general anup kumar chakma, the new ambassador to myanmar, will succeed major general abu roshde rokonuddawla. karim, a former ambassador to the united states, is a former pakistan foreign service officer from the 1967 batch and retired from bangladesh foreign service in 1998. karim is vice president of a private think-tank bangladesh enterprise institute headed by former foreign secretary farooq sobhan. chakma is now master general of ordnance in the bangladesh army. akramul qader has been appointed as the next ambassador to washington. bd --- monsanto, dole to collaborate on veggies  chicago, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - monsanto co and dole fresh vegetables inc are formalizing a partnership to breed vegetables that are more attractive to consumers. the five-year collaboration will focus on creating variations of broccoli, cauliflower, lettuce and spinach, the companies said on tuesday. the results could include vegetables that are more colorful, tastier, less susceptible to bruising and have a longer shelf-life. "if i buy broccoli on saturday or sunday and try to cook it on wednesday, it'll get wilty," said monsanto spokeswoman riddhi trivedi-st. clair. she also stressed that these new variants will not be genetically modified like the company's much larger corn seed and soybean products. also known for its herbicide business, monsanto has been aggressively growing its vegetable business with recent moves such as the 2005 acquisition of seminis, which gave monsanto control over more than 30 percent of the north american vegetable seed market. in 2008, monsanto acquired netherlands-based de ruiter seeds, whose focus is in greenhouse vegetable growers as opposed to the open-field expertise of seminis. dole had been monsanto's customer for decades before announcing the partnership on tuesday, said dole spokesman marty ordman. last year, monsanto also entered into an agreement with landec corp's packaged food-maker apio to develop broccoli and cauliflower products. if new products are created under the collaboration, they could be sold by dole in north america. monsanto shares closed tuesday up 1.5 percent at $79.30 on the new york stock exch --- us to send ambassador to syria after 4 years  washington, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - president barack obama has decided to return a us ambassador to syria after a four-year hiatus as talks between the two nations intensify, us media reported tuesday. the state department informed syria's ambassador to washington, imad mustafa, of obama's intention tuesday night, a senior administration official told the washington post. by returning a senior us envoy to damascus, obama is seeking to carve out a far larger role for the united states in the region as he works to rehabilitate us relations with the islamic world and the arab middle east, the newspaper said. "it's in our interests to have an ambassador in syria," a senior administration official told cnn. mustafa welcomed the decision to name a us envoy to increase dialogue among stakeholders in the middle east, cnn said. the announcement of a new ambassador is expected to be made later this week but no individual has been chosen to fill the post, the report states. a state department spokesperson was not immediately available late tuesday. washington withdrew its ambassador from syria in 2005 to protest the assassination of former lebanese prime minister rafik al-hariri. syria denies any involvement in the killing. a un investigation into the assassination initially implicated several syrian and lebanese officials, but its later reports have been more circumspect. a special un tribunal set up to try suspects in hariri's killing began work in the hague in march. relations between syria and the united states improved after obama took office in january and us officials said he was committed to seeking a peace deal between syria and israel as part of an overall middle east peace deal. the syrian government, however, remains under us sanctions, partly because of what the united states describes as a syrian role in helping insurgents infiltrate iraq. the decision to appoint a us ambassador follows a series of recent visits to damascus by high-level us military and diplomatic delegations, including a trip this month by obama's middle east envoy, george j. mitchell. "we've been having more and more discussions, and we need to have someone there to engage," the administration official told --- iran's khamenei says will not yield to vote pressure  tehran, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said on wednesday iran's establishment would not yield to pressure over the disputed presidential election, state television reported. "i had insisted and will insist on implementing the law on the election issue ... neither the establishment nor the nation will yield to pressure at any cost," khamenei  --- batters battling in warm-up game  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)  the batsmen of the west indies-bound bangladesh national team had a tough time on the first day of the lone two-day warm-up match at sher-e-bangla national stadium on wednesday. the bcb red, captained by mashrafe bin mortaza, were struggling at 79-7 at the close of play after shakib al hasan's bcb greens were skittled out for a paltry 188 in 48.2 overs thanks to a superb six-wicket haul by left-arm spinner enamul haq jr. after being put in to bat, openers tamim iqbal and junaed siddique gave bcb green nearly a steady start before bangladesh's new captain mashrafe drew first blood for his side removing tamim for 17, leaving the opponents at 37-1 in 8.3. junaed and roqibul hasan took their side to 71 before enamul struck first to have junaed (27) caught by mehrab to start his devastating spin web that also saw shakib al hasan (14), mahmudullah riad (10), mushfiqur rahim (0) and shahadat hossain (14) removed in a row. then mohammad ashraful dismissed mahbubul alam robin (2) and nazmul hossain (7) with his leg-spin and bcb green slumped to 188 all out. abdur razzak who was not considered for the national side due to his long absence in the international area, however, was 25 not out and later picked up three wickets for 23 runs. in reply, bcb red lost opener imrul kayes off shahadat hossain's very first delivery and nazmul hossain dismissed shamsur rahman for 24 to reduce mashrafe's side to 36-2 in 12.2 overs. mehrab hossain jr made 23 before being stumped by wicketkeeper mushfiqur off a riad delivery, leaving the side at 57-3. after being sacked from the captaincy on tuesday, there was an obvious impact on batting as the outgoing captain ashraful made just two off seven deliveries before being trapped in front by shakib. afterwards, razzak removed naeem islam (1), mashrafe (9) and enamul (0) in a row to reduce bcb red to 74-7 and shahagir hossain and ruble hossain were batting on 16 and nought when the bails were drawn. bd --- al turns 61  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)  awami league, one of the old parties of the country, is celebrating its 60th founding anniversary on tuesday with a succession of programmes. this year's anniversary is different as the party swept a landslide victory in the national elections. party chief and prime minister sheikh hasina paid floral tribute to the portrait of sheikh mujibur rahman at bangabandhu memorial museum in dhanmondi at around 7am. al deputy publicity secretary ashim kumar ukil told bdnews24.com hasina hoisted the national flag while parliament deputy leader and presidium member syeda sajeda chowdhury raised the party flag. the prime minister launched the founding anniversary by flying pigeons. since its birth at rose garden of tikatuli in june 23, 1949, al has been leading the nation in all the movements against autonomy to independence. hasina and party general secretary-cum- spokesperson syed ashraful islam delivered messages marking the day. in her message, hasina pledged to stay beside the people like in the past. ashraful asked all party leaders and activists to observe the day. the programmes of the day include a procession from 'shikha chironton' at the suhrawardy udyan at 2pm and cultural function in the evening at paltan maidan. a central team of the party led by presidium member sheikh fazlul karim selim will offer tribute at the grave of bangabandhu at tungipara in gopalganj. the party will organise a meeting at 2pm on wednesday, to be attended by hasina as chief guest. since its birth, the al quickly gained widespread support throughout the then east pakistan. maulana abdul hamid khan bhasani was the founding president of the party with sheikh mujibur rahman initially occupying the post of joint secretary. later, in 1952, mujib assumed the position of acting general secretary before becoming general secretary of the party the following year. he remained at the helm for 13 years. established as the bengali alternative to the domination of the muslim league in pakistan, the al soon became associated with the principles of secularism and bengali nationalism. having formed a coalition government in 1954, the party championed the bengali language movement in 1952 while decrying overt discrimination between the two pakistani provinces. the party gained a healthy majority in the historical election of 1970, however this was not acceptable to the political establishment of west pakistan and the bloody events of the independence war soon erupted in the troubled region. sheikh mujib declared an independent bangladesh just before he was arrested and taken to jail in pakistan. later, other party leaders formed an interim government on april 17. following the assassination of sheikh mujib and his family members in 1975, his daughter sheikh hasina, who survived the attack while abroad, returned home in 1981 and took over the reins of the party. the awami league has formed government three times since the birth of the nation. bdnews2 --- manchester city sign striker santa cruz  london, june 22 (reuters) - manchester city have signed paraguayan striker roque santa cruz from blackburn rovers, the premier league club said on monday. "i'm very happy to have signed for city," santa cruz told the club's website (www.mcfc.co.uk) after agreeing a four-year contract. "it's been close to happening for a while, and now i can just focus on football and concentrate on doing my best for the club. city gave no details of the deal for the 27-year-old who joined rovers from bundesliga side bayern munich in 2007. british media said the fee was around 18 million pounds ($29.65 million). city, owned by abu dhabi billionaire sheikh mansour bin zayad al nahyan, have also signed england midfielder gareth barry from aston villa as they bid to push for champions league qualification next season. "the owners want the club to be more successful," santa cruz added. they want to break into the top four, and the fact that the fans are so passionate about everything to do with city was also a factor." santa cruz, who has scored 20 times in more than 60 appearances for his country, links up again with city manager mark hughes who signed him when in charge at rovers. "we're obviously delighted to get him here," hughes said. it was really important that we signed him, because it's an area of the squad that we have needed to address for some time, and the qualities roque brings will be of great benefit. "his ability in the air and his physical presence are qualities we've been missi --- iraq urges scientists to come home  baghdad, jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - iraq appealed on monday for scientists living abroad to return home and use their expertise to help rebuild their homeland's economy after years of war. for decades iraq boasted one of the most highly educated populations in the middle east, and the government spent large amounts of its oil wealth to train its brightest individuals, sending many overseas to study at prestigious universities. but thousands fled crippling un economic sanctions and then the sectarian bloodletting unleashed by the u.s. invasion in 2003. violence has dropped across iraq in the past two years, but only about 700 university professors from across academic fields have returned. "you, the iraqi brains, are an important part of driving the path we are on," sadeq al-rikabi, political advisor to prime minister nuri al-maliki, told the start of a three-day conference hosted by the ministry of science and technology. "we are happy to see ... these brains come back again, and i hope their return will not be just for a short time." the government says that up to 350,000 iraqis living overseas have university degrees. that is 17 percent of the 2 million iraqi citizens who have fled abroad in recent years. but many of the 200 scientists attending the meeting in baghdad had reservations about moving back to a country where civilians are still killed every day by gun and bomb attacks. mohammed al-rubaie, a professor of genetic engineering at dublin university, said he planned to make only short visits. "we do not want to come back (to stay), but there are ways," he told reuters. "scientists could be invited for specific projects to give the benefit of their advice and experie --- china's top dissident arrested for subversion  beijing, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - one of china's best known dissidents, liu xiaobo, has been formally arrested on suspicion of inciting subversion, following his detention late last year for promoting a petition calling for an end to one-party rule. state news agency xinhua said on wednesday prosecutors approved liu's arrest on tuesday for "alleged agitation activities aimed at subversion of government and overthrowing of the socialist system." "liu has been engaged in agitation activities, such as spreading of rumors and defaming of the government, aimed at subversion of the state and overthrowing the socialism system in recent years," xinhua quoted police as saying in a statement. the move brings one of the best-known critics of china's ruling communist party a step closer to trial, and it will be a blow to supporters and human rights groups who had hoped he would be released after china passed the sensitive twentieth anniversary of the 1989 pro-democracy protests. xinhua reported that liu "confessed to the charge in preliminary police investigation." but his family and friends have said he has been unfairly persecuted for peaceful expression. liu, 53, has been one of china's most prominent dissidents since 1989, when he was heavily involved in the protests in and around tiananmen square that were crushed on june 4 that year. late last year, he was among the dissidents and rights activists who launched "charter 08," a petition calling for the dismantling of one-party rule and creation of multi-party democracy. "liu xiaobo is expressing his right to free speech. this is a basic right ... the communist party simply shouldn't be detaining people like this," jiang qisheng, a dissident who also signed charter 08, told reuters in an earlier interview. liu was jailed in the wake of 1989 and again in 1996. but he has remained a vocal and acerbic critic of the government, often publishing essays on overseas chinese websites. he also helped found the independent chinese pen group, which has campaigned against censorship and political controls. --- hc judgement will bond the nation, not divide: shafique  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)law minister shafique ahmed has said the historic high court verdict that declared that sheikh mujibur rahman, not ziaur rahman, had proclaimed independence of bangladesh from pakistan will unite the nation more than ever. "those who are saying that the nation will be divided over the verdict are waiting to distort the history," he told reporters at his office on tuesday. his comments came a day after retired wing commander bir pratik m hamidullah khan, a defendant in the public interest petition, who had said that the judgement would divide the nation. khan, who had fought the independence war as commander of sector 11, contested the verdict in the supreme court on tuesday. the judgement was given on a public interest petition by freedom fighter dr ma salam on apr 19. later, sector commanders forum and hamidullah khan were included in the petition. "some newspapers have published disparaging remarks about the high court judges which are tantamount to contempt of court," said shafique, a barrister and former president of supreme court bar association, apex lawyers' body. "bnp's former law minister moudud ahmed mentioned sheikh mujib as the 'declarer' of independence in his book 'sheikh mujiber shashonkal' (the rule of sheikh mujib) and now he is giving intentional speeches. this is unacceptable." shafique said that the high court referred to the book to support its verdict. he also said that the high court judgement that declared the fifth amendment to the constitution and subsequent 1975 military takeover as illegal was also historic. "the main base of democracy is a secular social system. now the constitution of 1972 will be established in the country once again." a two-judge bench of justices abm khairul haque and mamotaz uddin ahmed on sunday also ordered the annulment of the third volume of bangladesher swadhinata juddho dalilpatra (bangladesh liberation war documents) that presents ziaur rahman, a major in the pakistan army at the time, as the "declarer of independence". the high court banned the publication, sale, distribution and printing of the volume, and ordered its withdrawal and confiscation at home and abroad. it also directed the government to ensure the "true history" of independence was written in textbooks. bdne --- banking 'broken,' consumers need help: watchdog  washington, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - the outspoken head of a us congressional watchdog panel will strongly urge lawmakers on wednesday to set up a new government agency to protect consumers from "tricks and traps" set by banks. president barack obama has called for creating an independent financial products agency to oversee consumer lending as part of his sweeping proposal to overhaul the us financial regulatory system. "we can help fix the broken credit market. and i can sum it up in four words: consumer financial protection agency," said elizabeth warren, chairman of the congressional oversight panel of the troubled asset relief program, in prepared remarks. warren, who is a professor at harvard law school, will be the marquee witness at a house of representatives committee hearing on wednesday looking at a key provision of obama's broad plan to drag the aging us financial regulatory system into the 21st century. the provision to establish a financial protection agency for consumers "will be carried out," senator jack reed, chairman of the senate securities subcommittee, said in an interview with reuters television on tuesday. "definitely you have to have a consumer protection agency," he said, echoing vows made in recent days by obama and by senate banking committee chairman christopher dodd on a proposal that is meeting more criticism from business interests than perhaps any other part of the obama plan. congress is only beginning to delve deeply into the plan, a far-reaching response to the severe banking and capital markets crisis that has rocked economies around the world. the european union is eyeing similar reforms. one issue in the crisis was the enormous debt shouldered by americans in a real estate bubble fueled by subprime mortgages that many borrowers could not afford and did not understand, a factor that contributed to a huge spike in foreclosures that has helped drag the united states into recession. ending such lending practices is a key goal of the reforms being proposed by obama and backed by congressional democrats. warren seen heading agency warren, in her remarks to be given before the house committee led by democratic representative barney frank, cited studies and said that most consumers don't understand the terms underlying credit cards, mortgages, payday loans, tax refund anticipation loans and credit scores. "the broken credit market has put american taxpayers on the hook for billions in subsidies and trillions in guarantees to shore up our largest financial institutions. ... if we do not fix this, we will be hurt again and again," she said. a financial protection agency would help consumers make better decisions for themselves, she said. warren said that banking has changed over the years, from an old model that she called "simple and effective: consumers shopped around for products and terms, and lenders evaluated the creditworthiness of potential borrowers before making loans. "today, the business model has shifted. giant lenders 'compete' for business by talking about nominal interest rates, free gifts and warm feelings, but the fine print hides the things that really rake in the cash. today's business model is about making money through tricks and traps," she said. the proposed new watchdog, however, is already drawing sharp criticism. the obama plan "would create a very powerful agency that could make it much more expensive for banks to offer products and services to consumers," said financial services policy analyst jaret seiberg at research firm concept capital. "the chairman of the (agency) would be vested with tremendous power and few checks or balances. this should be especially worrisome to the banking sector as we would expect professor elizabeth warren ... to get the job." delahunt offers bill representative bill delahunt has introduced legislation in the house to create a "financial product safety commission." he said in prepared remarks that it was originally warren's idea. it would "review financial products for safety; modify dangerous products before they hit the markets; establish guidelines for consumer disclosure; and collect and report data about the uses of different consumer loans," delahunt said. some current regulators have said they fear separating bank safety and soundness oversight from consumer protection. ellen seidman, a former bank regulator who is now a senior fellow at the new america foundation, a think tank, expressed support for the new agency in her prepared remarks for the committee. but she said bank regulators should retain consumer protection responsibilities. "the bank regulators, given the proper guidance from congress and the will to act, are quite capable of effectively enforcing consumer protection laws," seidman said. a leading bank industry group said in its prepared remarks that new rules and examinations from the proposed safety agency would be costly, especially for smaller banks, and would not likely result in better protections for consumers. edward yingling, president of the american bankers association, said the agency would contradict the goal of fashioning an integrated, comprehensive regulatory system. "simply put, it is a mistake to separate the regulation of an institution from the regulation of its products," he  --- u.s. recession to bottom out this year: oecd  washington june 24(bdnews24.com/reuters) - a severe u.s. recession will bottom out this year, but any recovery will be weak due to anemic markets and shrunken consumer wealth, the organization for economic cooperation and development said on wednesday. "in this environment, a considerable degree of economic slack, especially in the labour market, is likely to persist ... bringing inflation to very low rates," the paris-based oecd said in a twice-yearly report on global economic conditions. it estimated that u.s. national output will contract 2.8 percent in 2009 but grow 0.9 percent in 2010. the oecd urged the obama administration to push ahead with plans for public-private partnerships to remove toxic assets from banks' balance sheets, adding that, if necessary, the federal reserve should expand the scale of its quantitative easing measures that include buying longer-term u.s. treasury securities. it warned that consumer spending was unlikely to rebound because labour markets remain strained, housing and stock wealth has been drained and credit conditions still are tight. on a positive note, the oecd said a lengthy deterioration in u.s. housing markets "may be approaching an end." in particular, it said the supply of unsold homes was declining relative to demand, a precondition for recovery. the oecd noted a major downside risk was that financial markets remain fragile, with mortgage credit in tight supply and banks still under considerable stress. "restoration of trust in financial intermediaries and markets is vital for a sustained and strong economic recovery to occur," it said. in canada, the oecd said the economy was likely to remain in recession through the third quarter and then begin a mild recovery. it forecast gross domestic product there will shrink 2.6 percent in 2009 and then grow 0.7 percent in 2010. one advantage that canada has is that its banks' balance sheets remained relatively healthy and remained profitable in contrast to many other countries. "reasons for their strength include a more conservative lending and borrowing culture, less opportunity for regulatory arbitrage and a more conventional mortgage market with fewer subprime loans and little securitization," the oecd noted. in latin america, the oecd said economic activity was rebounding in brazil after a slowing in growth during the first quarter and said retail sales had been specially resilient. "domestic demand is poised to gather strength in the second half of 2009 on the heels of ongoing policy easing," the oecd said. while an "uncertain" global economy poses risks for brazil and other emerging-market countries, the group said that if brazilian authorities maintain abundant liquidity in coming months, the country may be poised for a stronger-than-expected rebound from about the middle of this year. it estimated brazil's real gdp will shrink 0.8 percent in 2009, but then grow 4 percent i --- rab nabs 'top killer' in city  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)the rapid action battalion have arrested one of the city's 'top criminals' sohrab hossain shahin, commonly known as 'major' shahin. "shahin's brother shamim was a gang leader in the mirpur area. shahin was part of that gang," said rab-1assistant director kazi muttaki ibnu minan. "shamim was killed back in 1997/98 in an encounter with a rival group. shahin took charge of the gang after the death of his brother." rab said shahin was involved in contract killing, extortion and the lucrative jhut (rag) trade. he is facing 16 cases, including four charges of murder, said rab. rab also arrested two associates, seizing shahin's car, a chinese-made handgun, four bullets and three bottles of phensidyl, said minan. shahin, 32, shawkat hossain japani, 42, and abu hanif, 38, were picked up by rab-1 at around 1.30am from mohakhali. rab said shahin and his gang, over the last few months, were actively involved in murders at kafrul, mirpur, sheorapara and agargaon areas of the capital. bdn --- ship rams jetty at chittagong port  chittagong, june 23 (bdnews24.com) - a dutch ship lost control coming in to berth at chittagong port on tuesday, ramming into a jetty and causing major structural damage, a port official said. the steel-laden ship, mv kent legislation, hit jetty-8 at around 1:30pm, port secretary mohammad farhad uddin said. there were no casualties, he said. "but the front part of the jetty received a 40-foot deep fracture. the ship also suffered damaged.". loading and offloading had been suspended at the jetty, he said. a three-member committee, led by harbour master zafar ullah, has been formed to probe the accident, the port official said. bdnews2 --- jamaat rally in b'baria faces resistance  brahmanbaria, june 24 (bdnews24.com)the brahmanbaria muktijoddha sangsad, a freedom fighters' forum, has vowed to resist a rally scheduled to be addressed on wednesday by jamaat-e-islami assistant secretary general quader molla, an alleged war criminal. jamaat called for a workers' rally at nabinagar sadar upazila in the district where quader molla was supposed to be the chief guest. "we will resist quader molla at any rate," former muktijoddha sangsad commander shamsul alam said. the upazila administration has imposed section 144 for 24 hours to avert any untoward incident as both jamaat and muktijoddha sangsad called for rallies at bara bazar at 10am. "we have imposed section 144 from 9am wednesday to 9am thursday to avert any unpleasant situation," nabinagar upazila nirbahi officer faridul islam told bdnews24.com. riot police have been deployed at the upazila sadar, he said. nabinagar upazila jamaat chief golam faruk said they would make the rally successful in any case. bdn --- climate refugees will not flood rich nations: study  london, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - migrants uprooted by climate change in the poorest parts of the world are likely to only move locally, contrary to predictions that hundreds of millions will descend on rich countries, a study said on wednesday. the research from the international institute for environment and development (iied), a non-profit london-based think tank, challenges the common perception in the developed world that waves of refugees will try to move there permanently to escape the impact of global warming. for example, many farmers struggling to grow enough food as seasons change will leave their homes to look for work in nearby towns for short periods only, the study said. "it seems unlikely that the alarmist predictions of hundreds of millions of environmental refugees will translate into reality," said the paper, presented at a conference on climate change and population organised by iied and the united nations. "past experiences suggest that short-distance and short-term movements will probably increase, with the very poor and vulnerable in many cases unable to move." the study said uncertainty about the expected consequences of global warming -- including more extreme weather and rising seas -- and weak migration data make it difficult to forecast accurately how many people will be displaced by climate change. frequently cited estimates range from 200 million to 1 billion by 2050, it noted. iied researcher cecilia tacoli, the paper's author, said there was a risk that alarmism about climate-related migration in the developed world would lead to policies that fail to protect the most vulnerable people. "no one seems to have a perception that (migration) is an essential part of people's lives," tacoli told reuters. "for some people, (it) is an extremely good strategy to move to better jobs, to better lifestyles." the paper said that, because most governments and international agencies view migration as a problem they need to control, they are missing opportunities to develop policies that could increase people's resilience to climate change. these include helping local governments and other institutions in small rural towns create jobs, provide basic services and share out natural resources more fairly. even in small island nations and coastal regions threatened by rising seas, the numbers leaving their homes will depend on government and community measures to adapt land use and improve infrastructure and construction methods, the paper said. hasan mahmud, bangladeshi state minister for foreign affairs, told a conference in geneva on tuesday organised by the global humanitarian forum, that millions had already been displaced by floods and encroaching seas in his country. in response, the government is investing in more resistant crops and helping local authorities and communities respond quicker when disasters st --- peruvian team hit by theft of boots and shirts  lima, june 22 (reuters) - universitario's preparations for a peruvian championship match were hit on monday by the theft of 90 pairs of soccer boots and 50 shirts from their changing room at lima's monumental stadium. "our pride has been stung because it's not possible that we have been robbed in our own stadium," the club's sporting director german leguia said. "what's worse is that this should happen on the verge of an important match against san martin in which we could take the lead in the championship," former peru international leguia told state news agency andina. universitario, libertadores cup finalists in 1972, beat cienciano 2-1 at the weekend to go second, one point behind leaders and arch-rivals alianza lima with a game in hand. leguia said universitario had launched an urgent search for the boots, saying they were worth around to $150 a pair and that it would be hard to find replacements quic --- iran's history repeats itself as tragedy  paris, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - "those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it," the spanish-born philosopher george santayana wrote. in iran, both sides remember the past. pro-democracy campaigners are imitating the tactics of the islamic revolution, while the authorities are seeking to avoid the errors of the shah as they defend what they consider the legitimate order. the authorities reject any comparison between the events of 1978-79 and today's mass protests against the disputed re-election of president mahmoud ahmadinejad. the crackdown and bloodshed on the streets of tehran are grimly reminiscent. supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei blames the protests on hostile western powers and "terrorists." he has thrown his full weight behind ahmadinejad. the 1978-79 uprising was structured by a potent combination of internal and external leadership, using mosques and audio cassettes to spread the anti-shah sermons of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, exiled first in iraq and later in france. the revolutionaries used the shi'ite muslim mourning cycle, turning memorial processions seven and 40 days after each death into new protests, which produced new "martyrs" for the cause. the cult of martyrdom is a feature of shi'ite islam, with the adulation of imam hossein, grandson of the prophet mohammad, who was killed by the tyrant yazid at the battle of kerbala. strikes effective the anti-shah revolt reverberated around provincial towns and villages. among the most effective tactics were strikes by oil workers, who turned off the taps on most of the country's revenue, and by bazaar merchants, who funded the rebel clerics. the main opposition presidential candidate mirhossein mousavi, who says the authorities stole his victory, has called for processions to mourn demonstrators killed in protests. he has also called for strikes if he is arrested. but there has been little sign of labor unrest so far and the bazaaris seem loyal to the ruling system, under which their import-led business has prospered. the government appears to have a tight grip on the oil industry, whose revenue remains vital to fund public spending and reward loyalists. during the revolution, news of protests, strikes and deaths was telephoned abroad by resistance networks, and broadcast back into the country by the bbc world service and other short-wave radio stations. as a young reporter in paris, i was bombarded with telephone calls recounting often unverifiable events in iran from exiles such as abolhassan banisadr and ebrahim yazdi. banisadr went on to become iran's first elected president in 1980 before being dismissed the following year and forced back into exile in france. yazdi, a u.s.-trained doctor and close khomeini aide, still heads the banned iran freedom party in tehran and was briefly detained last week. today's opposition campaigners are using social networking technology -- the internet, facebook and twitter -- in the same way that khomeini's followers used audio cassettes and the telephone to spread news and alert the media. they have a diffuse network of supporters abroad, who run websites and television stations. for example, acclaimed iranian film-maker mohsen makhmalbaf is putting his celebrity status at the service of the opposition by speaking on behalf of mousavi in the european parliament and in french media. inside iran, campaigners have imitated revolutionary tactics by staging nightly protests chanting "allah is great" and "death to the dictator" from the rooftops of their homes, echoing up to the elborz mountains above north tehran. shah's error to human rights campaigners at that time, the shah's great error was to alienate the population with torture and bloodshed. but in hindsight some historians say the shah was too weak, slow and irresolute in repression. when he tried to crack down, it was too late to stop the mass movement, and the loyalty of his security forces wavered. when he tried belatedly to reach out to the opposition, khomeini rejected all compromise and condemned collaborators to death. one of the key lessons that khomeini and his successors drew from the revolution was the need to divide the security forces, with parallel revolutionary bodies at every level to ensure loyalty to the authorities and prevent any possible coup. that system persists, with riot police, the basij militia and the revolutionary guards all involved in quashing protests, using teargas, clubs and, in some cases, live ammunition. few iranians doubt the authorities have the determination to crush the protest movement. the question is whether that will widen rifts in the clerical establishment and engender long-term resistance that could undermine the revolutionary system. --- survey reveals infidelity best kept off the mobile  sydney, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - having an affair? it pays to keep it low-tech, with a new australian survey finding that a quarter of mobile phone users had discovered their partner, or heard that someone else's, was cheating because of text messages. the poll, conducted by dominant phone company telstra corp, also showed that one in five had sent a text message meant for their partner or lover to somebody else by mistake. the "state of the nation report," which surveyed more than 1,200 mobile phone users in may, revealed that australians were addicted australians texting, with 30 percent saying smses were their preferred method of communication. "texting has become an indispensable part of our everyday lives," glenice maclellan, telstra consumer executive director, said in a statement that added that the trend of prolific texting seems to be causing trouble when it comes to romance. "this is an interesting reflection of australia's wider lifestyle trends," added social researcher mark mccrindle in the statement accompanying the report. "the fact that one in three prefer texting to other communication forms signals the natural fit of this technology to our increasingly time poor, busy lifestyles." the survey showed that four in 10 mobile users send up to seven texts a day, with the bulk going to family and friends. women, in particular, valued mobile phones because they enabled them to stay in touch with loved ones. and australians are not shy to text about anything, anywhere and at any time, with one in four using smses to announce a birth and nearly a fifth using it broadcast a job promotion. fifteen percent admitted they would text at a funeral, a wedding or a christening ceremony while 14 percent said they texted in ch --- india to urge pakistan to arrest alleged mumbai mastermind  new delhi, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - india will urge pakistan to arrest a key islamist militant leader for his role in the mumbai attacks, a day after an arrest warrant was issued against the raid's alleged mastermind, an official said on wednesday. an indian court on tuesday issued arrest warrants against 22 pakistanis, including jamaat-ud-dawa chief hafiz mohammad saeed, for their role in the conspiracy that led to the mumbai attacks last november, in which 175 people were killed. a month after the nov. 26 attacks, pakistani authorities put saeed under house arrest after a u.n. security council committee added him and the islamist charity he heads to a list of people and organisations linked to al qaeda or the taliban. but a pakistani court ordered his release earlier this month due to lack of evidence, angering india, who said islamabad had enough evidence to put saeed behind bars again. "the issuing of the arrest warrant provides pakistan an opportunity to arrest saeed again," public prosecutor ujjwal nikam told reuters from mumbai. "we will urge interpol to execute the arrest warrants and pakistani police to act on it," he said by telephone. he is one of 38 people charged by india as key planners of the attacks. the mumbai attacks renewed tension between the nuclear rivals and new delhi "paused" a slow-moving peace process and demanded islamabad "dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism". india also gave pakistan a dossier of information shortly after the attack and followed it up with what it said was more evidence that pakistan could use to prosecute the guilty. indian officials say pakistan needs to act faster on the investigation. nikam said the prosecution was furnishing evidence against five more pakistani nationals for their role in the attacks. "we are collecting more data and will shortly ask for their arrest warrants as well," nikam said. hafiz saeed founded the lashkar-e-taiba militant group in 1990, and for years it battled indian forces in the disputed kashmir region. saeed stepped down as let leader shortly after india accused the group of being behind an attack on its parliament in december 2001. the group was banned in pakistan in january 2002. --- intel failure led to past killings: sahara  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)intelligence failure led to the assassination of independence hero sheikh mujibur rahman and the four national leaders in 1975, the august 21 grenade attack on awami league chief sheikh hasina and the bdr carnage, the home minister has said. "it is being investigated to see whose negligence it was and then steps will be taken against those responsible," she told reporters at her office after the third meeting of the cabinet committee on law and order on wednesday. steps are being taken to modernise the agencies to avert a repeat of such failure, she added. sahara said 40 cases had been filed at the districts and one in dhaka over the mutiny by border guards at their peelkhana headquarters on feb 25-26. the cabinet meeting discussed quick disposal of the cases and exemplary punishment against those responsible, the minister added. she alleged that the 2001-2006 bnp-led government had reared militant groups and terrorists. "the situation improved after present government took over. but we are not satisfied yet. we are trying to improve the situation further." local government minister syed ashraful islam, law minister shafiq ahmed, information minister abul kalam azad, state minister for liberation war affairs ab tajul islam, cabinet secretary m abdul aziz, home secretary abdus sobhan sikdar, inspector general of police noor mohammad, rab director general khandakar mahmud hasan, bdr director general major general mainul islam, the ansar-vdp director general and representatives of the national security intelligence, armed forces division, army headquarters and coast guards were present in the meeting. bdnews24. --- verdict on independence declaration stays  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)the supreme court on wednesday did not stay the high court order that ruled that independence architect sheikh mujibur rahman proclaimed bangladesh's independence from pakistan in 1971. the appellate division chamber judge md abdul aziz asked the petitioner to get the copy of hc order and then file 'leave to appeal'that is to make a plea to the court to accept the appeal against the verdict. retired wing commander bir pratik m hamidullah khan, who fought the independence war as sector 11 commander, filed an appeal to overturn the hc order on tuesday. the high court on sunday ruled that sheikh mujib, not ziaur rahman, a major in the pakistan army, proclaimed the independence. a two-judge bench of justices abm khairul haque and mamotaz uddin ahmed also ordered the cancellation of bangladesh liberation war documents (bangladesher swadhinata juddho dalilpatra) that presented ziaur rahman, then a major in the pakistan army, as the "declarer of independence". the high court verdict was given on a public interest litigation by freedom fighter ma salam. the verdict had also said those who were involved in such distortion of history have violated the constitution and the government could take punitive measures against them. the high court directed the government to include true history in textbooks at all level. "by reviewing international and national newspapers and other documents, the court has established the truth that it was bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman who proclaimed the independence," additional attorney general m inayetur rahim had told bdnews24.com after the verdict. "this verdict has washed away the plot to distort the history of the independence proclamation by the anti-liberation quarter for long time," he said. the writ petitioner salam said, "the truth has won. now the next generation will know the true history of independence proclamation." bdnew --- washington subway crash kills 9, dozens injured  washington, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - two washington, d.c., subway trains collided during the monday afternoon rush hour, killing nine people and injuring at least 75, officials said early on tuesday. a district of columbia fire department official said the death toll had been raised from 6 late on monday, but said officials were prepared to identify any of the deceased. mayor adrian fenty called the crash the deadliest in the 33-year history of the city's metro subway system. officials said one train hit another train that had stopped at a platform, but the cause of the crash was not immediately clear. at least one car from the trailing train was hurled onto the top of the other in the accident, which occurred on above-ground tracks. "metro officials do not know the cause of the ... collision and are not likely to know the cause for several days as the investigation unfolds," the washington metropolitan area transit authority said on its web site. the crash occurred on the heavily traveled red line about 5 p.m. edt, between fort totten and takoma stations on the northeastern outskirts of the city near the border with maryland. both trains were heading south into the city. it was the first crash involving a passenger death since 1982, when three people were killed in a derailment. the metro train system began service in 1976. "what happened ... (was) one train was stopped waiting to get the order to pass. ... the next train came up behind it and, for reasons that we do not know, collided into the back of that train," john catoe, general manager of the washington metropolitan area transit authority, told reporters. "we are committed to investigate this accident until we determine why this happened and what must be done to ensure it never happens again," catoe said in a statement. the transit authority said one of those killed was a female train operator in the trailing train. the accident trapped passengers in one or more of the subway cars. one witness described how one train appeared to collide with -- and then run up and over -- the second train. "it was very mangled, everything is ripped out of there," the woman, who was not identified, told the local abc television affiliate. investigators with the national transportation safety board were at the crash site early on tuesday collecting evidence. "they will have to do both an investigation and then a release of the scene for us to clean it up," fenty told reporters at the scene. officials encouraged riders to avoid the red line, which they said would be "severely impacted" by the crash --- channel one back on air  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)channel one was back on air on tuesday afternoon, 21 hours after it stopped transmission after the private television station promised to pay five months' fees for the satellite transponder. the channel resumed its transmission after singtel, the owner of the satellite that beams its programmes, restored the link around 2.30pm local time, a singtel official in dhaka said. the singtel official told bdnews24.com that the station committed to clear one and a half months of fees by june 29 and another three months 'as soon as possible'. the official warned that failure to pay in time would result in stoppage of transmission again. a one official on monday claimed that transmission had stopped at around 5pm "due to technical reasons". but a singtel representative said the station defaulted on payments to the tune of us$ 106,000, fees accumulated since jan 15. channel one general manager abul kashem told bdnews24.com on monday: "transmission is suspended temporarily. we have been trying to contact the singtel authorities in singapore. we hope we'll be back on air soon." channel one rented the transponder space for us$ 21,200 a month and has not paid singtel, the satellite owner, since jan 15 this year. "it has happened before and we have always tried to help them (channel one)," a singtel official in dhaka said, requesting anonymity. bdnew --- egypt blame cup exit on media 'lies' about prostitutes  johannesburg, june 22 (reuters) - egypt have blamed their confederations cup exit on media "lies" about their players consorting with prostitutes after beating world champions italy. head of mission mahmoud taher told a news conference on monday that the team had been stunned by local newspaper reports. he said the team, knocked out on sunday after losing 3-0 to the united states, had in fact been robbed at their hotel. "the players have been really subjected to terrible damage in egypt and they are in a very bad mood right now due to the false allegations that were published in the newspapers here," he said. "the media have caused all this damage which we were shocked by. "the allegations were published in the papers here on saturday and sunday morning and unfortunately the players heard about it from back home," he added. "these lies started here in south africa then they were quoted back home and this had an affect on our players. "this was not the only reason for the defeat, we had some injuries, and some players got injuries in the match, but these were some of the reasons for the defeat." under investigation local media have alleged the money was not stolen but paid to "ladies of the night", with about 19,000 rand taken from the players after their shock 1-0 win over italy in johannesburg last thursday. fikile mbalula, a police commissioner responsible for security at the event, told an earlier news briefing that the matter was still under investigation. he added that the police could not be responsible for people or friends invited into hotel rooms "who may not be security friendly to you." taher, whose delegation was leaving johannesburg on monday night, responded: "i am saying that no strangers, no women, no girls, nobody came to the floors or the premises of the egyptian delegation," he said. "we came back to our hotel and the players went to their rooms and discovered they had lost their money and their belongings. "they complained to the reception at the hotel accompanied by our loc (organising committee) escort who reported it to his superiors and he reported it to the police," he said. "we thought it could be sorted out as a simple incident that can happen at any hotel. what we are answering today is what was published in the newspapers, not about the theft because the police are investigating that problem. "we are demanding from the media protection to our players honour and dignity and the rights due to our culture in egypt." a spokeswoman for the south african police service (saps) said they were investigating the case and would not give out any details until the probe was concluded. "the team members involved have already given saps detectives their statements so there would be no need for them to be interviewed or interrogated further," she added. local media also reported that some brazilian players had been robbed of a "jacket and some money" from their ho --- economic woes to bite into july 4th travel  new york, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - us travel over the independence day holiday weekend will drop 1.9 percent this year compared to 2008, a casualty of higher fuel prices and economic worries, travel and auto group aaa projected on wednesday. approximately 37.1 million americans will travel 50 miles or more away from home during the holiday weekend, typically the busiest time for auto travel in the us, down from 37.8 million last year. ongoing fears about the state of the economy coupled with increasing joblessness and falling incomes are major factors in reducing fourth of july holiday travel, aaa said. auto travel will drop 2.6 percent from last year's levels due to higher fuel prices. but air travel, which will account for just 5 percent of fourth of july travel, will increase 4.9 percent due to lower fares and pent-up de --- daniel craig eyes psychological thriller  new york, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - daniel craig can shake, but can he stir? the latest james bond has proved a critical and commercial success in his two turns in the iconic role, for "casino royale" and "quantum of solace." but he has been deliberate in choosing his next live-action role. now comes word he is in early talks to star in "dream house," a psychological thriller to be directed by irish filmmaker jim sheridan for indie producer morgan creek, though principals stress that the two sides have not reached a deal. in the david loucka script, craig would play a man who moves his family to an idyllic small town, only to find his house haunted by its former inhabitants, who were murdered there. with a pedigreed director like sheridan ("in america," "my left foot"), the movie would accomplish the goal of branching craig out into a more prestige direction post-"quantum" while keeping him in the realm of the commercial. like other bond actors, craig has faced a crossroads coming off bond hits. his two other roles, "munich" and "defiance," saw him essentially take on a more art house version of the bond character of hit man and vigilante. craig already has shown interest in more boutique fare, recently signing for the broadway drama "a steady rain." his name also surfaced in connection with "the eagle of the ninth," kevin macdonald's period pic for focus feat --- critics whitened money: muhith  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)finance minister a m a muhith has hit back at the critics of the offer in the budget to legalise black money, saying many of them had legalised their undisclosed income before. "those who are now criticising the proposal had whitened their black money at different times in the past," the minister told reporters on wednesday after a meeting with the delegation of telecommunication infrastructure operator of bangladesh and bangladesh cold storage association at the secretariat. "where were the people who are now worried about ethics when the scope was given in the past?" on whether the proposal would not be kept, the minister said that was a matter of his individual decision. "when the budget is placed it reflects the individual view of the finance minister. but the budget is not passed with that individual decision." the cabinet gives the final decision, he said. muhith said the money whitening provision had been given since 1976 and it is ongoing over the years. the minister conceded that the offer did not see significant amount of money whitened. this time the government considered the provision to boost investment in the public private partnership initiative, the minister said. bdnew --- human rights disappear in french cabinet reshuffle  paris, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - french president nicolas sarkozy has used a cabinet reshuffle to scrap the human rights portfolio two years after he created it, a move that reflects a change of heart about both the post and the woman who held it. rama yade, one of three women from an immigrant background appointed to the government when sarkozy came to power in 2007, was moved from human rights to sports in a reshuffle announced late on tuesday. she was not replaced in her old job. "it's a huge honour for me, that the president and the prime minister renewed their trust in me by keeping me in the government," yade said on europe 1 radio on wednesday, denying that the move to sports was a demotion. but human rights activists said they were disappointed. "this is a political signal that the government has given up on promoting human rights as a top priority," said jean-marie fardeau, director of the french arm of human rights watch. yade, a woman of senegalese origin, was only 30 when she joined the government. the only black person in the cabinet, she also stood out because of her striking looks and frank talk. during a visit to paris by libyan leader muammar gaddafi in december 2007, yade said: "france is not a doormat on which a leader can come and wipe from his feet the blood of his crimes." but she angered sarkozy in december 2008 by refusing to run for a seat in the european parliament and quickly suffered the consequences when days later her boss, foreign minister bernard kouchner, said publicly he thought her post wasn't much use. "i think i was wrong to ask (sarkozy) for a secretary of state for human rights. it was a mistake," kouchner said. those words, from a man who rose to fame as the founder of aid group medecins sans frontieres, went down badly with public opinion. kouchner's popularity dropped while yade's rose. yet sarkozy did not forgive her for resisting him over the european elections, although he could not sack her because polls show the public love her and it may have been awkward to get rid of the only black minister. instead, she was marginalised. she hinted at the frustrations of her old job when she said on wednesday she would at least have "a real budget" for sports. but fardeau of human rights watch said it was a shame the post had been scrapped as yade and her team had been doing good work on women's and children's rights despite a tight budget. "at the same time, we were never fooled by the creation of this human rights post. we have always judged the government on its actions and will keep doing so," he told reuters. opposition politician cecile duflot, of the greens, said that in any case the government was in no position to lecture other countries about human rights given its record at home. "instead of lecturing others we should be looking at our own policies, for example at how we treat our prisoners," she said on france info radio, referring to overcrowding, poor hygiene and a wave of inmate suicides blighting french pri --- critics whitened money in the past: muhith  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)finance minister a m a muhith has hit back at the critics of the offer in the budget to legalise black money, saying many of them had legalised their undisclosed income before. "those who are now criticising the proposal had whitened their black money at different times in the past," the minister told reporters on wednesday after a meeting with the delegation of telecommunication infrastructure operator of bangladesh and bangladesh cold storage association at the secretariat. "where were the people who are now worried about ethics when the scope was given in the past?" on whether the proposal would be kept, the minister said that was a matter of his individual decision. "when the budget is placed it reflects the individual view of the finance minister. but the budget is not passed with that individual decision." the cabinet gives the final decision, he said. muhith said the money whitening provision had been given since 1976 and it is ongoing over the years. the minister conceded that the offer did not see significant amount of money whitened. this time the government considered the provision to boost investment in the public private partnership initiative, the minister said. bdnew --- apple's jobs has "excellent prognosis"  san francisco, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - apple inc chief executive steve jobs underwent a liver transplant at a tennessee hospital and has "an excellent prognosis", the hospital that performed the operation confirmed on tuesday. jobs, 54, received the transplant because he was "the sickest patient on the waiting list at the time a donor organ became available," the methodist university hospital transplant institute said in a statement on its website. "mr. jobs is now recovering well and has an excellent prognosis," the statement said. james eason, program director at the institute and the hospital's chief of transplantation, added that the confirmation had come with jobs's permission. the hospital did not release details of job's condition or when the operation was performed, but the wall street journal reported over the weekend that the transplant took place about two months ago. hospital spokeswoman ruth ann hale did not immediately respond to a request for comment on jobs' condition. a prognosis refers to a doctor's prediction regarding the probable course of a disease, disorder or injury. apple shares have often fluctuated on speculation about jobs' health. the executive, considered by many investors to be the driving force behind apple's reputation for innovation, was treated in 2004 for a rare form of pancreatic cancer called an islet-cell, or neuroendocrine, tumor. but he appeared gaunt at an apple event in the summer of 2008, setting off a storm of speculation about his health that failed to abate in the ensuing months. in january, after initially blaming his weight loss on a hormone imbalance, he announced his medical leave, saying his health issues were "more complex" than originally thought. he has not been heard from since, though a reuters witness spotted jobs at apple's campus in cupertino, california, on monday and jobs was quoted in a company press release. the company would not say whether jobs is off medical leave and back at work. apple has said repeatedly that it looks forward to his return at the end of june. a full life jobs is viewed as the key visionary driving the company's product development and the mastermind behind iconic products such as the ipod and the iphone. but analysts say wall street has become much more comfortable with other key executives in jobs's absence. apple shares have surged around 60 percent this year, despite falling 10 percent following jobs announcement of medical leave. methodist's confirmation comes as some newspaper and internet reports speculated on whether jobs waited his turn for a transplant. in the united states, 15,771 people are waiting for a liver transplant, according to the organ procurement and transplantation network of the u.s. department of health and human services. the hospital said jobs underwent a complete transplant evaluation and was listed for transplantation in accordance with policies laid down by the transplant institute and the united network for organ sharing (unos) policies. "we provide transplants to patients regardless of race, sex, age, financial status, or place of residence", the hospital said in its statement. pancreatic cancer often spreads to the liver, but it is not clear if jobs received a transplant for that reason. doctors without knowledge of jobs's specific condition have said if the tumor migrated to the liver from the pancreas, a liver transplant may be an effective treatment and he could lead a normal life. about 70 percent of liver transplant patients are still alive three years later, unos estim --- seven killed in washington subway crash: mayor  washington, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - seven people died when two subway trains collided during the monday afternoon rush hour in the worst rail accident in washington, d.c.'s history, mayor adrian fenty said on tuesday. a d.c. fire department official had earlier told reuters that nine people died in the crash, when one train hit another that had stopped on above-ground tracks on the outskirts of the city. roughly 75 passengers were involved in the accident, fenty said. two patients had been in critical condition, but the condition of one of them was upgraded overnight, he said at a morning press conference near the scene of the accident --- more charges against ex-adviser matin  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)a parliamentary watchdog has assigned a subcommittee to investigate further alleged irregularities by former shipping adviser m a matin. the parliamentary standing committee on shipping said matin "unilaterally" raised the retirement-age for chittagong port authority pilots from 57 to 60. "this is a violation of the government rule. he alone cannot change the retirement age of public servants," noor-e-alam chowdhury, the committee chairman, told reporters after a meeting. "it requires an investigation. therefore, we have tasked the probe body to investigate this too," said chowdhury. matin, who had also headed a corruption busting national taskforce formed by the past caretaker government, did not seek approval from the finance and establishment ministries before he made his unilateral decision on nov 9, 2008, according to the document presented at the committee meeting. raising the age-limit of government officials involved additional spending from the public exchequer and needed approval from the finance and other ministries concerned, shipping ministry officials said at the meeting. the standing committee formed the subcommittee in may, headed by ruling party lawmaker mohammad shah alam, to investigate alleged irregularities of the adviser in the award of a container handling deal, at chittagong port, to a private firm in his last 24 hours in office. the standing committee earlier this month decided to summon the adviser to hear his version. bd --- h'jheel project: bgmea bhaban stays  dhaka, june23 (bdnews24.com)  the capital's hatirjheel-begunbari project will be completed on time leaving the bgmea bhaban intact, housing and public works minister abdul mannan khan said tuesday. the planned city centre development, to reclaim a major water body from encroachment, has seen ballooning costs and confusion over the future of the bgmea bhaban, standing mid-site on what was the begunbari canal. khan said the integrated development project--which includes five new flyovers, bridges, parks, roads and lakes--would be fully realised by the june 2010 deadline. the government will provide alternative housing for all those displaced by the project, said khan following a meeting with the steering committee for the project. "those displaced will be allocated housing in four or five multi-storey buildings adjacent to the project on public land," said khan. the minister said funds for the housing would be redirected from the current allocation for the project, although the details were still being worked out. the 300-acre site, adjacent to the sonargaon hotel and stretching back to rampura, had until recently become a haven for encroachers that included property developers as well as thousands of slum dwellers. the move to re-develop hatirjheel-begunbari was taken during the past caretaker government as an environmental measure to recover the area from decades of encroachment. the past government had said all structures in the area, legal and illegal, would be cleared without exception. the project, initiated in 2007, aims to preserve rainwater and eliminate water logging in the area, and to ease traffic gridlock by creating another east-west route in the city. army engineers began the work of clearing the land for the project with a cost initially estimated at tk 1000 crore. it was later revised to tk 1,480 crore. bdnews24. --- hc gets 9 additional judges  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com)- president md. zillur rahman appointed nine additional judges on two-year contracts to the high court, a government hand-out said on tuesday. their appointments will be effective from the date of taking oath. they are: tangail district judge showmendra sarker, supreme court registrar (district judge) abu bakar siddiqi, deputy attorneys general naima haider and md. nuruzzaman, supreme court advocates md. moinul islam chowdhury, obaidul hasan shaheen, md. rezaul hassan and m moazzem hossain, additional attorney general m inayetur rahim. bd --- i have earned my england place, says bopara  london (reuters) - batsman ravi bopara said he had earned his place in the england squad for the ashes series starting next month. bopara should bat in the pivotal number three spot in the order against the australians after a run of good scores for his country. "over the last couple of months i've earned my place on the team," bopara told reporters on monday. "i've always wanted to bat in the top order for my country. to do it against the best in the world will be a great challenge for me." bopara endured a difficult start to his test career and was written off as an international batsmen after three successive ducks in sri lanka in 2007. but he scored 104 against west indies in barbados in february, made 143 in the first test against the same opponents at lord's and became only the fifth englishman to notch up three test centuries in a row with an innings of 108 at durham. "i work very hard on the player i want to be.. (but) i didn't think too much about what happened in sri lanka. i didn't change a lot," he said. "i just try to enjoy it. you can put pressure on yourself and make too much fuss about it. i think it's important you go out and enjoy yourself. when you're a kid you don't worry about anything." the first test against australia starts on july 8 in cardiff and after recent stints playing twenty20 cricket in the world cup and indian premier league (ipl) bopara has had little time to adjust. "i think two weeks is enough to prepare," the 24-year-old bopara said at an event in south london to promote cricket among urban youth. australia, who crushed england 5-0 in the last ashes series, are a much changed side after the retirements of key players like shane warne and adam gilchrist but bopara is not under-estimating their replacements. "i think everybody's dangerous," he said. "all 11 players. we certainly won't take anybody ligh --- sudan orders four hanged for murder of us official  khartoum, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - four sudanese men were condemned to death by hanging by a court wednesday for killing a us aid official and his driver in khartoum, and a fifth was sentenced to two years in prison, the judge said. john granville, a 33-year-old officer with the us agency for international development, and driver abdelrahman abbas rahama, 39, were shot dead as they returned from new year's celebrations in the early hours of january 1, 2008. "we sentence the first four defendants to death by hanging," judge sayed ahmed al-badri said in the khartoum court, adding that the fifth would go to  --- china says north korea a "serious concern"  beijing, wed jun 24, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - china shares the region's "serious concerns" about a nuclear north korea and urged all parties to keep negotiating, a senior chinese military officer said wednesday after talks with pentagon officials. lieutenant-general ma xiaotian did not announce any new measures against pyongyang, but said beijing was concerned about north korea, which staged a second nuclear test on may 25, prompting new un sanctions. "for the regional security of northeast asia, the north korean nuclear issue is not only a serious concern for the united states and neighboring south korea and japan, but is also for china," ma told a news conference after talks with a us delegation led by under secretary of defense michele flournoy. but ma also repeated china's position that the dispute with north korea must be defused through negotiations. "we hope and encourage the relevant parties to take positive steps and more stabilizing measures to control developments on the korean peninsula, to address the issues through diplomatic negotiations, consultations and dialogue." the united states has ratcheted up the pressure on north korea, tracking its ships in a bid to deter arms shipments banned under the recent un resolution. ma told reporters that the talks did not cover the issue of those north korean ships. ma also said the united states and china had agreed to hold special consultations in july to address the issue of preventing sea confrontations. "the two sides agreed to work together to avoid such incidents recurring," ma said, referring to recent skirmishes between chinese and us vessels off china. in recent months, chinese vessels have become involved in several brief, non-fatal confrontations with us surveillance vessels in seas off the chinese coast that beijing claims are in its exclusive economic zone. the pentagon has objected, saying the us ships involved were operating within international law. ma gave an upbeat view of prospects for improving relations between the two military powers. "the two sides agreed to work together to strive for improvement," he  --- russia unhappy at us-kyrgyz air base deal: report  moscow, wed jun 24,(bdnews24.com/reuters) - russia was tricked by kyrgyzstan over a deal with the united states to keep open a key air base in central asia, a russian diplomat was quoted as saying by local media on wednesday. the united states has agreed to pay $180 million to kyrgyzstan to keep open the last remaining us air base in central asia which is used to supply troops fighting taliban insurgents in afghanistan. washington had been haggling to keep the base open since february, when the former soviet republic announced its closure after securing pledges of $2 billion in aid and credit from russia. moscow has made no secret of seeking to check us interests in the former soviet union which it regards as its sphere of influence. the kommersant newspaper quoted an unidentified russian diplomat as saying moscow viewed the us move as a trick and that russia would soon make an "adequate response" to the deal. "the news about keeping the base was a very unpleasant surprise for us -- we did not expect such a trick," the diplomat said. "the real character of the us military presence in central asia has not changed, which goes against russian interests and our agreement with the kyrgyz leadership," the russian diplomat said. the surprise decision to close the base -- announced by kyrgyz president kurmanbek bakiyev in moscow alongside kremlin chief dmitry medvedev -- provoked speculation that russia was trying to use the issue as a bargaining chip in us relat --- liverpool agree deal to sign johnson from portsmouth  london, june 22 (reuters) - liverpool have reached an agreement to sign england right back glen johnson from portsmouth, the premier league club said on monday. "we have reached an agreement with portsmouth and with glen johnson for the transfer of the player to anfield," liverpool said on their website (www.liverpoolfcv.tv). former chelsea player johnson has become an england regular under coach fabio capello and has 15 caps for his country. johnson, who began his career at west ham united, struggled to make his mark at chelsea but has become one of the best attacking full backs in the premier league at portsmo --- hurricane andres pounds western mexico, one dead  mexico city, tue jun 23, (bdnews24.com/reuters) - hurricane andres, the first cyclone of the eastern pacific season, pounded western mexico on tuesday after sweeping a fisherman to his death and flooding streets in acapulco. andres blew into a category one hurricane with sustained winds of 75 mph, coming close to mexico's pacific coast before easing in strength and turning northwest, the us national hurricane center in miami said. the storm, which was around 110 miles west of the port and resort town of manzanillo, was downgraded back to a tropical storm. "some additional weakening is forecast during the next 24 hours," the nhc said. the ports of puerto vallarta, manzanillo and lazaro cardenas were all closed as the storm created huge waves. no major tourist resorts were in immediate danger, however, and mexico has no oil drilling platforms in the pacific. on monday, andres caused heavy rains that flooded parts of acapulco, and a man in his mid-thirties was swept away to his death by a wave as he stood waist-deep in the sea in a nearby town fishing with a line. "he was dragged away," said an emergency services spokesman for the surrounding state of guerrero. a tropical storm warning was in place for the stretch of coast between manzanillo and cabo corrie --- china defends export policies against wto complaint  beijing, june 24 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - china on wednesday rejected charges from the united states and europe that its restrictions on raw materials exports violated international trade rules, saying that its policies were in keeping with wto regulations. the european union and the united states said on tuesday they were taking a complaint to the world trade organization over china's export curbs on some industrial raw materials used in steel, cars, microchips, planes and other products. in the first official chinese response, the ministry of commerce rejected the complaint but said it would go along with the consultation procedures required under wto rules. "the main objective of china's relevant export policies is to protect the environment and natural resources. china believes the policies in question are in keeping with wto rules," the press office of the ministry said in a faxed statement. "following the wto procedures for dispute resolution, china will appropriately handle the request for consultations." washington and brussels have launched the wto case while they are also looking for china's cooperation in pulling the world economy out of a slump. the complaint may become another irritant in ties alongside recent friction over military modernization, internet controls and the united states' own economic policies. but china's initial response was relatively mild compared with its vehement reaction to earlier wto complaints. and traders said the move would have little immediate impact on trade flows. "i don't think it will impact exports as steel wire rod has already carried a 15 percent export tax, therefore no one can ship any anyway," said a senior executive at sinosteel corp, the country's largest state-owned steel trader. he spoke on condition of anonymity. brussels and washington say beijing continues to restrict exports of raw materials used in steel, semiconductors, aircraft and other products despite china's pledge to eliminate taxes and charges on exports when it joined the wto in 2001. this hurts foreign "downstream producers" of goods, such as aluminum producers and steelworkers, since the export restraints limit their access to raw materials and raise world market prices for the materials while lowering the prices that domestic chinese producers have to pay, u.s. officials said. included in the materials covered by the case is a range of strategic minor metals used in applications such as alloys, ceramics, mobile phones and light bulbs. zhou shijian, a former chinese trade official, said the u.s. and eu were guilty of hypocrisy. "protecting natural resources is perfectly reasonable, and all countries in the world, including the united states, protect their national resources," zhou told the global times, a chinese-language paper. "the wto stresses one cannot restrict imports and should open markets, but it doesn't have specific rules on what should be done about exports," said zhou.  --- pakistan army says in final phase of swat offensive  islamabad, june 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - pakistan security forces are near the end of their offensive in the swat valley, the army said on monday, with more than 40,000 people on the move before the next phase starts against the pakistani taliban's headquarters. the offensive in swat, 120 km (80 miles) northwest of islamabad, came after taliban gains raised fears for the future of nuclear-armed pakistan, a vital ally for the united states as it strives to defeat al qaeda and stabilise afghanistan. nearly 2 million people have fled fighting in the northwest, most since early may when the army pushed into the former tourist valley of swat, and the united nations is appealing for $543 million in aid to avert a long-term humanitarian crisis. "the security forces are in the final phase of eliminating terrorist hideouts and camps in swat," chief military spokesman major-general athar abbas told a media briefing. sporadic clashes were going on as the military cleared the militants' last strongholds in the scenic valley, and 22 militants had been killed in the previous 24 hours, he said. "the search operations are continuing in the secured areas to ensure that areas are safe for the return of idps," he said, referring to internally displaced people. the fragile civilian government which came to power last year is keen to see displaced people go home as quickly as possible. the government has the support of most political parties and members of the public for the offensive but it risks seeing that evaporate if the displaced are seen to suffer unduly. the united states, alarmed by taliban aggression earlier in the year, has been heartened by the military action and will be keen to see similar action against factions, including the afghan taliban, who attack into afghanistan from pakistani enclaves. india also wants so see action against militants based in pakistan who are involved in an insurgency against indian forces in its part of the disputed kashmir region. "destroyed, overrun, dismantled" in all, 1,592 militants had been killed in the swat offensive, abbas said. more than 100 soldiers have been killed, the military says. there has been no independent confirmation of the military's casualty figures. while the military has pushed the militants out of most of swat, there had been no word on the fate of their leaders. interior minister rehman malik said the taliban leader in swat, fazlullah, had been wounded. abbas said there was no hard evidence and intelligence agencies were trying to confirm reports some taliban leaders had been wounded and a few had been killed. with the swat offensive in its final stages, fighter jets attacked militant positions in south waziristan near the afghan border, killing four and wounding several, residents and intelligence officials said. south waziristan is the headquarters of pakistani taliban commander baitullah mehsud, who has been accused of a string of bomb attacks, including the assassination of former prime minister benazir bhutto in 2007. the government has ordered the military to attack mehsud's strongholds. air strikes on his bases have been launched and the main road into the remote, mountainous region secured. abbas said security forces were being "pre-positioned" before the offensive. "his network, the factory that he has set up where classes of suicide bombing and training are being conducted ... should be destroyed, overrun and dismantled," abbas said. he did not say when the offensive would be launched. more than 40,000 civilians are moving out of south waziristan even before it begins, threatening to compound the humanitarian crisis. colonel waseem ahmed, spokesman for the government unit overseeing relief efforts, said at least 60,000 civilians were expected to flee. u.n. special humanitarian envoy abdul aziz arrukban told reuters only about 35 percent of the $543 million in aid the united nations is seeking had been given. u.n. aid operations in pakistan cost about $2 million a day, he said. [id:nsp491100] pakistan is being kept afloat by a $7.6 billion international monetary fund loan, underscoring the need for outside help for the displaced. --- consumer law falls short, but needs fast action: cab  dhaka, june 23 (bdnews24.com) the consumers association of bangladesh has called for speedy implementation of the newly passed consumer rights protection act 2009, but cautioned that the legislation fell short of expectations. a roundtable, organised by cab on tuesday, also ended with calls for a commission under the new law. cab president borhan ahmed said legislation required quick execution, being the first attempt at protecting the rights of consumers in bangladesh. "it certainly needs modification. but swift implementation is the first priority," he said. ahmed was disappointed that proposals for the establishment of a consumer rights court and exemplary punishment for those caught supplying or selling adulterated products had not been reflected in the act. prof mizanur rahman, from dhaka university's law department, echoed the criticism. "as it stands, the new law does not allow consumers to take direct legal action against fraudulent or unfair trade practices," he said. "this is the vital flaw of the prevailing act." "besides, if suppliers of adulterated products are not directly liable for the goods, they remain untouched. consequently, it is impossible to maintain production standards in the market," said rahman. he said the legislation was unfairly weighted in favour of retailers, suppliers and producers rather than consumers' interests. the act requires a provision for a national consumer rights protection commission, he said. "we are not completely satisfied with this act. it may suffice as it stands for now, but it needs amendments and fast implementation," said cab secretary quazi faruq in summation. bdnews24. --- air france `black box' signals located: report  paris, jun 23 (bdnews24.com/reuters) - signals from the flight data recorders of the air france airliner that crashed into the atlantic killing all 228 people on board have been located, le monde newspaper said on its website on tuesday. an air france spokeswoman said she could not confirm the report. the transport ministry and the air accident investigation office could not be reached immediately for comment. le monde said french naval vessels had picked up a weak signal from the flight recorders and that a mini submarine had been dispatched on monday to try and find the "black boxes" on the bottom of the rugged ocean floor. the "black boxes" may contain vital information that could help explain what happened when the airbus a330 aircraft crashed into the sea en route from rio de janeiro to paris on june 1. locator beacons, known as "pingers", on the flight recorders send an electronic impulse every second for at least 30 days. the signal can be heard up to 2 km (1.2 miles) away. french vessels involved in the search operation include a nuclear submarine with advanced sonar equipment and a research ship equipped with mini submarines. the remote location in the atlantic as well as the depth and surface of the ocean floor have made the search especially difficult and the wreckage could lie anywhere between a depth of 1 km (0.6 miles) and 4 km (2.5 miles) --- al created declaration debate: moudud  dhaka, june 24 (bdnews24.com)bnp leader moudud ahmed on wednesday alleged that it was awami league that created debate about the declaration of independence. he claimed that ziaur rahman made the declaration of independence on march 27, 1971 being self-motivated. later, he made another on behalf of independence architect sheikh mujibur rahman on march 30 as the local awami league leaders requested him. moudud said law minister shafiq ahmed on tuesday lied without going through his book. in the book 'bangladesh: sheikh mujibur rahman-er shashonamol' (bangladesh: reign of sheikh mujibur rahman), he said he did not write anything about the declaration of independence. "but he said that i named him as the proclaimer of independence. the information is not correct," he told reporters at his motijheel chamber. he has been briefing reporters at his chamber since he stepped out of jail on bail in several cases. he said preparations for filing a case against the former army chief moeen u ahmed was underway, but would not to disclose the details. the high court on june 21 gave the judgment that sheikh mujib, not ziaur rahman, proclaimed independence on a public interest petition by freedom fighter m a salam on april 19. the verdict had also said those who were involved in such distortion of history have violated the constitution and the government could take punitive measures against them. the third volume of bangladesher swadhinata juddho dalilpatra (bangladesh liberation war documents) printed in during the term of the 2001-2006 bnp-led coalition government which described ziaur rahman as the 'declarer' of independence. the high court directed the government to include true history in textbooks at all level. bd ---
